Mama's poking me in the side of the head with a promiscuous looking rubber object. I don't even want to know what it is, but I do want her to stop poking me.
"Mama," I say, "why are you poking me?"
"Shet," she says, taking a break from the poking to push a cotton-candy wisp of red hair behind her ear, "the man's trying to swindle you! Believe me, I've seen swindlers. Remember Marty, from when you were a kid? He swindled his way right into my nicest set of plates and six coffee mugs. Just woke up one morning, and the cupboard was empty, didn't even close the cabinet. He was a sweet man in that way - didn't want me to be too shocked, you know."
"Ok Mama," I say, "so if I understand what I think you are actually trying to tell me, despite your roundabout way of getting at things, it's that $150,000 isn't a good deal for a laundromat in Sommerville."
"Well, let me put it this way," she said, pulling at the silver orb which hung from her necklace like a plum stone, "how old's this guy, this broker?"
"He's not a broker, he's just the guy who manages the Bubble Mart," I say. If I judge by the color of his chest hair, which is always peering out from between the golden folds of a sort of jumpsuit top that he is always wearing, he's at least 50. Which I think is probably old enough that Mama will ignore it, so I say,
"He's at least 50," to which Mama replies, poking me now in the shoulder with the promiscuous rubber object, "that's good enough for me," and she gets out of the passenger seat of the gold Lincoln and heads into the laundromat, which, I think, hasn't cleaned even a single sock for at least 2 years.
Mama's been a bit on edge lately, what she calls "angstly," which is her way of trying to combine "angsty" with "elderly," but she's not much of a wordsmith. I can tell because she's drinking all sorts of herbal tinctures and wearing monochrome, but I can also tell because she tells me at least 5 times daily that she's feeling "angstly." I say, What do you want me to do about it, and she says, Why don't you go to medical school, and I say I couldn't give a flying fish about medical school so she says Then get married. It happens the same every time, although sometimes medical school becomes law school, but no matter what happens, she wins.
She's winning now, too. Here I am, Shet Berger, 34 years old and I'm about to be a business owner, which to me right now is just fine. In fact, it's the Egg. Let me tell you what that means. When I was a kid Mama gave me a tiny enamel Faberge egg that come to think of it maybe Marty had given her and she gave to me once Marty left with the plates and the six glasses. So she pawned it off on me, which really says a lot about Mama. And this says a lot about me too, because I bought it. I mean, I bought into it. I hot-glued a pouch of fabric I cut from an old shirt and kept the little egg there, which became the source of a lot of anxiety, as when Tom Philips stole it and gave it to Susanne Ova as a Valentine's present and then I had to be the guy to go up to her and take it back, this little puny Jewish kid with his t-shirt tucked into his sweats and he's all "that was my Faberge egg in the hot-glued pouch, Mama gave it to me" which, when said publicly, becomes a bit of an embarrassment. She pointed to her chest, "this egg?" she said, and extracted my egg from between what you could, I suppose, call breasts, but was mostly just crumpled up bra with who knows, maybe a sock or two in it. All of which became fairly obvious when she did, in fact, give it back to me, dangling it for a moment on her finger like some Grace Kelly and saying in what is as husky a voice as a 12 year old girl with braces could muster, "well, it's awfully nice, I'll be sad to lose it." But feminine charms, even of the supposedly erotic but actually sort of disturbing type found in physically prepubescent, though by desperation and ineffectiveness almost post-menopausal, children, worked on me about as effectively as Mama's pretend ignorance when it comes to electronics works on the Geek Squad guy who probably has about as many socks in his pants as Susanne had in her bra. That is, not at all. Thankfully, the egg had gained no perceivable odor from the time spent on Susanne's mesa, but I brushed it off anyway with my toothbrush when I got home in case the opportunistic dead skin cell had used it as an escape pod.
The egg, then, had survived the treacherousness of its first encounter with the enemy, which said a lot to me. It took on a sort of super-saturated significance because of its mere persistence. I learned that whatever it is that is under the shirt of a woman was not nearly as valuable as the egg, which had survived the experience better off than the mesa, which had gone away having lost its favorite companion and having done nothing to gain the attentions of a fearful young brown-haired boy. I suppose that's why I began to call things that gain the upper hand between that things which, let's be honest, Mama wants, and the thing that gives me the feeling that, at least, I can hold her off a few more months before she pulls out the promiscuous rubber object and starts poking me again about the medical school or the marriage. So it goes, the teeter-totter of Shet Berger's life.
I get out of the driver's seat of the Lincoln and start pacing around in front of the Bubble Mart, pulling my earlobe and reminding myself that whatever's happening right now in there, this is my Egg, when Mama comes back out of the front door, sort of tamping her hair puff like she was packing very delicate snow into a cone.
"You just gonna stand there fiddling while Rome burns?" she says, to which I reply, What the hell does that mean, to which she says Watch your language, to which I apologize. I follow her around to the passenger side of the car, a maneuver I have performed many a time and which frankly creeps me out, because although I am only 5'3", Mama is 4'10", and I feel a bit like a giant butler, which image scares me. First, butlers in general are terrifying because they know just which card to remove to cause the whole tower to collapse. Second, when I feel large like that, it gives me the sensation of physical power which makes me shrink up, I think I mean that quite literally, in the turtle sort of way, if you see what I'm saying. This is my own Mama we're talking about, not some prostitute in parks behind Fenway, and really I shouldn't be thinking about turtles whatsoever when Mama's around.
She gets in the side door and shuts it. I knock on the window and stare into a cloud of red sugar. She leans into the door, her hair flattening against the glass, and rolls down the window.
"Well, get in," she says.
"Why?" I say.
"The bank closes at 5," she says.
The car thrums to life, a giant car carrying two very small human beings a very short distance. Your average person, seeing how I handle this Mama of mine, might wonder what it is that's missing from my brain. Do I lack that key piece of human analysis that lets me link thing to thing, so that instead of asking and asking why, as one might think I ought, I just accept the consequences? And if they had the chutzpa to actually open their mouths and ask me such a thing, I would direct them once again to the Egg, which is now comfortably in my pocket.
Mama picks her teeth with the corner of an EBT card, her promiscuous rubber object menacingly in her lap, like that sort of bald cat from James Bond. She's wearing a puffy white coat, like the kind yuppies from Newton wear, but actually from T.J. Max, and has the furry rim around it. She looks like a leopard.
"You look like a Leopard," I say and she pauses, EBT card in hand, and looks at me.
"Couger," she says, and we both laugh, she her sputtering-car-trying-to-turn-on laugh, me my very-slowly-moving-rotary-sprinkler laugh. I think we are laughing for different reasons - she, because she made a vaguely adult joke in my presence which amused me, which on an ordinary day I find pretty much repulsive. Me, because I am about to be the owner of the Bubble Mart, a 2200 square foot masterpiece of clunking and whirring that will, I have no doubt, make for a fine symphony. The art of music never came to me - recorders, flutes, small snare drums all mysteriously shedding their necessary parts in various dumpsters around Highland Park. But I always dreamed of being a conductor, more for the sheer control over anything really than the music that came out of the orchestra, which I always found less interesting than a loose wheel on a shopping cart. But my terrifying and majestic fate seemed to be reaching a head as we trailed behind us the unnecessarily grand screen of smoke which coughed knowingly from the tail pipe of the Lincoln. Mama rested one hand casually on her promiscuous rubber object, and the other gave my face a sort of awkward side slap, her shimmering disco ring bruising, undoubtedly, my upper cheek.
"You would have made a fine lawyer," she said, to which I replied,
"You're the better negotiator," which I think earned me three days at least free of the ceaseless head poking.
Jack (Dennig) makes a list. He populates his list with three to dos:
1. Deal with John Smiley
2. Break Nemoy's Skull
3. Don't Think About The
BM
He considers the list, which he has written in a wide, left-leaning shaky hand on the back of a Dunkin' Donuts receipt. It seems wrong to call the list a to-do list, since one of the items is really a to-don't. He realizes that his list is the same as yesterday's list, with the exception that he changed "knees" back to "skull." The essentialness of the body part vis-a-vis the survival of the body changes depending on Jack's mood. Last week, when he scored the deal with Cam Wrikes, he had benevolently changed "shins" to "toes." But today, he is in a skull-breaking mood, and to prove it to himself, he stands in front of the crazing mirror in his bathroom, eying somewhat skeptically his own somewhat skeptically eying image. Still eying, he says, first in a whisper like a distant train coming down a tunnel:
"I am a powerful thinker. My thoughts are 100% original." Now he looks himself right in the eye, first the left eye which bulges a little and then the right, which he is more proud of.
"No one can deny me the right to my thoughts," he continues, "My thoughts create my reality." The train comes closer to the station.
"I am 100% unique, I am the maker of my reality!" He is feeling fairly righteous now, combing back his bristly, inky hair with both hands.
"I will make my dreams a reality!" he shouts.
"I'll make my dreams a reality and kick your patootie if you don't keep it down," shouts Marie from the bedroom. Jack eyes somewhat less skeptically his actually somewhat handsome face. "Today is only the beginning," he says.
The first item on Jack's list is to deal with John Smiley. John Smiley lives in Eastie, which is all the way across town, and dealing with him, though it looks so simple on his list, could prove to be a bit of a challenge, so he opts to start with number two, which is Break Nemoy's Skull. This seems both easier and closer-by. Definitely closer-by. His clothes for the day are already in a neat stack on the small table in the bathroom, over which hangs a single dangling lightbulb. He puts on gray sweatpants, a sort of salmon-colored polo, and the kind of black fedora hat you get on the street for 2 dollars, but which Jack got on the street for nothing. He changes in a perfectly vertical position between the yellowing porcelain toilet and the sink stand, careful not to kick the table. He flosses, but does not brush his teeth. He grabs his briefcase, which is really a 4" X 8" X 12" cardboard box onto which he has ingeniously, he thinks, fastened a carrying rope. The briefcase was also stored in the bathroom, so that no rustling would occur in the bedroom, which is also the kitchen and the entryway to his studio apartment. Although Marie also has her own room in a two bedroom in JP, 7/8ths at least of the cereal in the cupboard is hers, along with all the milk, two heads of lettuce, the jar of ranch dressing and 11 granola bars. Jack has one Protein Zone Naked juice, the end of a bag of peanuts, and a lactose-free milk box, all of which he puts into his briefcase. He's going to need that Protein Zone after he breaks Nemoy's skull. He assumes that he'll be needing 30 grams of protein and a hint of pineapple juice for a good skull-breaking, but he's not certain. Can he break Nemoy's skull with his bare hands, or will perhaps he require some sort of head-battering object? On the day when his list read "nose," he was fairly certain that just hands would do. On a particularly bad day when Marie had eaten the last apple pie bite and so he had to go into the world without breakfast, he had vowed that today would be the day of the spine. On that day, he brought Marie's yoga ball, which did not fit into his briefcase, and completely filled the passenger seat of his two-door. He thinks a skull-breaking will require some sort of utensil, though nothing so drastic as the yoga ball. He looks around the room for one, and spying his pocket umbrella, nestles it next to the peanuts in his briefcase/lunchbox. As he moves his name from the "inside" box to the "out for a bit" box on the cork board hanging outside his door, he hears Marie shout from inside, "and come back with your cut for once!"
Out of habit, he steps quietly down the apartment stairs, shuffling his briefcase toward the wall to let old "Dodgy" Dodgeson past. The Naked Juice slips over the edge of the box and tumbles down the stairs, while Jack shushes it desperately.
"That one weird mother," says Dodgy to no one in particular, in an airy baritone, which sounds a bit to Jack like someone walking on peanut shells.
"Shush yourself," Jack says, descending after the rogue smoothie.
Jack parks on fourth in a four hour parking spot. He has always found that somewhat amusing, and wonders for the umpteenth time whether there are only three hour spots on third, two hour spots on second, and one hour spots on first, all of which seems somewhat probable. He then wonders about five hour spots on fifth, which seems not out of the question, six hour spots on sixth, and seven hour spots on seventh, at which point his imagination fails him and he shakes his head in disbelief. He pulls from the glove compartment a 1997 D Quarter, which he checks on his way to the meter. He's left his battering umbrella in the car, and he goes back to grab it, because today will be the day for the skull smashing of Nemoy.
Jack sees Nemoy on the corner of 4th and Omar.
"Hey, dang, what you got that umbrella for, brotha? It ain't gonna rain any time 'fore 2025 from what I hear. Just be sun, sun, sun. Lemme see that thing." Nemoy take's the short black umbrella and pops it open.
"Dang, you think that lady over there wanna buy this thing? It's doin all right." Nemoy shrinks the umbrella down again and pops it back open like it's some sort of jellyfish trying to escape that Nemoy's got by the tail.
"Give me that," says Jack, but Nemoy's already heading to the other side of the street, his single dreadlock sticking out of the back of his head like a robin's tail. This is how it always goes with Nemoy. Now Marie's gonna be pissed about the missing umbrella, which will lead to at least a week of sleeping on the yoga mat. It's just like it was with the missing yoga ball, which somehow Nemoy had managed to trade for two Jerry Garcia knock off ties, which led to one month of foot massages and 8/8 boxes of cereal on the shelf belonging to Marie, and absolutely no apple pie bites. The month ahead looked desperate.
Nemoy comes back with a toothy grin.
"Coupon for Ben and Jerry's" he says, snapping the paper between his hands. "Now what you wanna see me for?" Jack should have seen this coming. He was never going to get his cut this month. Or any month, most likely.
"It's the third of the month, Nemoy, and I have to keep Marie stocked on cereal, you know what will happen if she..." But Nemoy was retreating into his tent, if you could call it that. It was a cardboard shanty covered with a blue tarp. There was a space in the cardboard for entering and exiting, which was covered by a soiled light blue flannel cloth with sheep and clouds on it. Nemoy called his home his "imaginarium."
"Wait, I got something for you," says the imaginarium, and out through the sheep and clouds sticks Nemoy's hand holding a thick cotton sheet of paper. At the top, in gilt embossing,  is a toga'd woman riding a cow side saddle. She's blindfolded, and holding in her right hand a scale, and in her left a glass, presumably of milk. Underneath, also gilt embossed, it reads "Fred La Vache, Cash Cow LLC," and an address. Underneath, in scrawling red pen, it says:
Jack - I've got a job for you. Come see me at the Yes Yes Gallery. - Steve
"What it say?" said the imaginarium. "Suit tol me not to read it, not that I'd be wanting to be reading anything that guy be writing. Why can't he jus see you? Why you gettin me involved in all this, dang!" Jack folded the note and slid it into his briefcase. This might be good, he might finally be able to pay off John Smiley, which would make his finder's cut from Nemoy irrelevant. Maybe he could get out his studio apartment, find a job at Food 4 Less, or even Trader Joe's. He had heard they paid benefits. He headed toward the car.
"Dang, suit said you'd be covering the service charge," said the imaginarium. Jack reached into his pocket and pulled out a 2002 P Quarter. He placed it in the little cardboard box outside the imaginarium that said, "For the Children."
"God bless you," said the sheep and clouds. Jack thought for once in a long time he might be able to cross something off his to-do list, though sadly he had failed in his to-donts.
Freddie La Vache hated being a lawyer. He hated all the pointless Latin phrases. He hated sitting at a desk all day. And most of all he hated all other lawyers. He wanted to be a polo star. He'd never ridden a horse. He'd only actually seen a horse once, and it had kneed him in the groin and simultaneously took a dump. But they were beautiful creatures, wild, full of a certain human sorrow.
His firm, Cash Cow LLC, was located in the basement of the Happy OK Lounge in Chinatown, the bar that served three candy-coated almonds with every Tsingtao. Cash Cow LLC consisted of him and his assistant, currently an 18-year-old boy named Steve who, if Freddie was any judge of character, had no character. He didn't even have good procrastination skills, which Freddie figured must be a sign of his inner failure as a person.
Freddie had been having a particular bad day, in which he had dropped his sample custom ballpoint, engraved with Cash Cow LLC, in the urinal of the Happy OK Lounge. It was unlikely that he would ever get another sample from Custom Pens Inc., which had already sent him 5 different models, all of which had met their fates in various ways. Today he would have to settle with a golf pencil from the upstairs Karaoke table.
Which was really fine, because, fortunately, there were no important papers to sign today. In fact, there were no activities whatsoever that required writing. Freddie looked at his calendar. It was wide open except for an expected call from a certain Deborah, the customer service representative from Office Depot, who he had contacted last week, calculating that, with only one pen left, he would soon need a new source for custom samples. So Freddie settled in for a productive day of looking at polo horses on the internet. Steve, who had been waiting outside the Happy OK Lounge when Freddie arrive at 9:21, was sharpening the box of golf pencils that Freddie had procured in the absence of the custom pen.
At 10:17 the phone rang, and Freddie spent a productive 20 minutes trying to convince Deborah (Debbie by the end of the call) from Office Depot customer service that she needed to buy a house, a very particular house, in the up-and-coming neighborhood of Boyle Heights. The fact that Debbie was based in Boca Raton, Florida, did nothing to dissuade the real estate lawyer.
By this point, Steve had finished his dauntless task and was sitting obnoxiously at his desk. Steve had been with Cash Cow LLC. for 2 weeks. Steve had excellent posture, which heightened Freddie's fear that, one day, Steve would likely turn some legal maneuvering and force Freddie to hand over his company to Steve in absence of any other assets. Perhaps the dutch oven that was once his mothers would also go to Steve.
It would never do, Steve running Cash Cow LLC. He was only 18 and he didn't even have a license. Freddie looked admiringly into the dingy corner where his own license stood on a filing cabinet.
University of Northwestern Plonksburg, Online Division.
Upon the recommendation of the faculty, has conferred upon
Freddie "Bubbles" La Vache
The degree of Masters of Business Administration,
With all rights, etc. etc.
The space where the signature of the president of the University of Northwestern Plonksburg was supposed to go was blank. Freddie grimaced and turned the degree around. He hated the name Bubbles.
Freddie had got his nickname in 1997 when, during his first year attending UNP, and in the initial adrenaline rush of setting out on the pathway towards richness and fame, he had purchased what was a sure bet: a beautiful Laundromat in East Hollywood. It needed a bit of a refresher, really just some sprucing up. He had promised Jackie and Darlene, the members of his UNP Los Angeles Meetup Group, that he would flip it before they graduated. A freestanding sign in the parking lot, which rose 20 feet from the pavement, had an illustration of a bubble putting a smaller bubble into a dryer. No one was sure why, and the three of them at first humorously speculated on the nearly cannibalistic tendency of our round cousins. Darlene, who was attending UNP for a degree in psychology, spent countless hours analyzing the bubble's activity through her Freudian lens.
"Can we at least all admit that the Elder Bubble has some sort of a mother complex that it is enacting onto its child Bubble, forcing it back through the bubble wand through which it originally came?" It was hard to argue with Darlene. She was completely earnest, and in the inspiration of her new knowledge, she began calling Freddie "Bubbles." Jackie, who was attending UNP for computer science, naturally followed suit.
Freddie had had two serious perspective buyers over the past 8 years. A Texan, who wore on his head what Freddie could only imagine was large enough to bathe a small baby, wanted to open a sort of lewd club. He was looking specifically for a laundromat, it had fit his concept perfectly. Even the 24hour sign outside wouldn't have to be taken down. But the children's school across the street had complained and his CUP had never got passed. The second buyer was an Indian man named Chirag, who had come and tested every washer and dryer, washing the same towel in each one, having scattered a carefully weighed quantity of instant coffee on the towel in between each wash. He documented the results with a small hand held Nikon. The towel had got grungier and grungier as the testing went on, but Chirag seem satisfied enough with the results. When all the testing was done, and Chirag had agreed to the (at this point very generous) conditions, Freddie had asked for the down payment, at which point Chirag had presented him the coffee-stained rag and a photobook containing pictures of the rag after each wash. Freddie had smiled what he had thought was a generous smile, as in, very nice, now where's the money, but had soon realized that Chirag was in earnest. It was Freddie's unfortunate fate to be pushed around at the whim of unbelievably earnest people. He wondered what Chirag was up to, but the image search only brought up pictures of a lamp that resembled the genie's lamp from Alladin.
Freddie was sad that he had come to the end of that train of thought. It was only 11:01, and he couldn't reasonably leave before 3 and expect Steve to have any respect for him. That was the kind of behavior that caused your crew to mutiny.
Freddie got up from his desk and wandered casually over to the other corner of the basement, as if he were possibly on his way up the steps and through the kitchen of the Happy OK Lounge to use their bathroom. There was no plumbing in the basement, and they ran an extension chord down the stairs in order to power their computers and the single exposed light bulb in the center of the room. It was an affordable accommodation. Freddie had always prized his economy.
He leaned casually on Steve's desk, eying the Gimp for Dummies book Steve was reading.
"Have you finished the sharpening already?" he asked, examining the perfectly symmetrical cone at the top of a gold pencil. Steve looked up at him, then back down at his notebook. This was going to be harder than Freddie thought.
"I've got an assignment for you, Steve. Very important."
"I already checked the hole puncher. It's still empty," said Steve, drumming his fingers on his desk. "Is that all?" Freddie scratched his chin and looked at the dangling Edison bulb. He thought the Edison bulb would give this place a nice Brooklyn loft vibe, but instead it had the effect of making Freddie feel like he was being constantly watched.
"No, I mean I've got a real assignment for you. A real real estate assignment." Freddie hadn't had the nerve to bring up the Bubble Mart with Steve yet. Somehow it always came out that he had owned the place for 8 years and eventually all of his assistants began calling him Bubbles, at which point he had had to let them go, or rather they often let themselves go, or rather they just didn't show up to work anymore. Freddie sighed. He had never sinned against God. He was just an unlucky guy.
"I have a property I need you to sell." Steve looked up from his Gimp for Dummies book.
"You own a property?"
"A laundromat."
"You own a laundromat?"
"Yes I own a laundromat," Freddie said. Wait, not too defensive now. Steve's cool eyes stayed with him. 3. 2. 1.
"And I want you to sell it." Steve drummed his fingers on the desk again. Calculatingly, Freddie thought. But in a good way. As in maybe he has or can make a plan kind of way.
"I think you're ready to do this one on your own," said Freddie.
"But I've only been here two weeks, sir" said Steve.
"That's two weeks too long," said Freddie, snorting. Steve looked at him.
"I've never sold a property before," said Freddie, shutting his book. Well that makes two of us, Freddie thought.
"Don't worry, it's easy," said Freddie. "And Laundromats are really hot right now. Everyone wants to get into the Laundromat business. You just sit back and watch the quarters roll in. Why do you think all the immigrants own Laundromats? Easy money!" Gosh, Freddie was even convincing himself. He hadn't been this sure about anything since the model of the solar system he had build from tennis balls for the 5th grade science fair.
"Well, what do you say?" The dangling bulb flickered and went out.
"We need more candy coated almonds!" said a voice from upstairs.
Jack's to-do list today has only 2 things, which is a bit of a disappointment. Jack likes to have a long to-do list. It keeps his mind occupied, keeps it from going down the spiral of Automatic Negative Thoughts. It was Marie who told him to start keeping a list. Marie's list usually says,
1) Wake Up
2) Make a List
3) Consider the List
4) Check the weather.
5) Decide whether list is appropriately suited to the weather.
6) Decide which cereal best suits the weather.
After this, she gets hungry and stops making the list in order to eat cereal, which six times out of seven is Kix. On Sundays she permits herself to choose one of the other six cereals she keeps stocked at all times. It's her version of church.
Today Jack's to-do list says:
1) See Steve
2) Break Nemoy's knuckles.
Today he brought with him a cardboard tube which arrived in the mail with Marie's new eye-shade chart poster. It's pretty long, but he's not totally convinced it will be able to break Nemoy's knuckles. He's not sure the cardboard will stand up to the bone. It's not like he's a material scientist.
Jack gets off the Gold Line at Chinatown and walks up to Chung King lane. He knocks on the steel door of the Yes Yes Gallery. For a gallery, it's not particularly conducive to art making. It looks more like a war-time bunker than an art gallery, but the large vertical sign reading "Yes Yes Gallery" makes it clear that Jack's in the right place. Jack breathes three deep breaths. Other than breaking various of Nemoy's bones, it's the first time he's had a job in 16 months, and Jack wonders whether he's still got the face anymore. You are 100% unique, he says aloud, taking a deep breath. A small head-sized door opens and a pimply face appears. "Thank you," it says.
Jack is ushered into a sort of ante-chamber that continues to make him think of Third Reich Germany rather than bearded men, and women in Thai-fisherman pants. In fact, the thought of women in Thai-fisherman pants sitting in this room makes Jack feel a bit anxious for their safety, and he squeezes his poster tube for comfort.
"You're not exactly what I was expecting," says the pimply-faced boy. He really is a boy, and his lack of beard furthers Jack's anxiety. Jack always figured that beards helped to soften people's tempers. "But you came recommended from John Smiley, so I guess we'll work with this." The boy reached into his denim jacket. Please don't be a gun. The last time Jack held a gun was when Marie's brother had let him shoot one when he and Marie had first met. He had accidentally shot a hole in the tire of Marie's Scion, and they had made him wait over night with the car so they could call their repair guy the next morning. Apparently their repair guy's phone was off, and they didn't trust any one else with the Scion.
The pimply-faced boy pulled out a pad of paper with the same gold embossing as the one Nemoy had given him. He also pulled out a golf pencil. On the top sheet was written a name, Shet Goldberg, and an address. The boy gave Jack the pad and the gold pencil.
"I need to know everything about this guy. When you get anything good, write it on a sheet from this pad and give it to Nemoy. I'll get it." He ushered Jack out of the room and back into the daylight of Chung King road. Jack blinked. Across the street was the Happy OK Lounge. Maybe he'd get a drink and start there.
Mama has already installed the electric kettle on Washer #7. Otherwise, the Bubble Mart is a bit of a disaster, mainly because the population of spiders has sort of taken over. Generally I don't mind spiders, what with them being a natural part of this earth and also because they eat flies, which are generally speaking far more annoying than spiders, because of the buzzing. But the extent of their Bubble Mart civilization is startling. I wonder if they'll develop language soon.
Mama's tea kettle boils and clicks, and simultaneously there is a sort of knock on the door, which is surprising because the Bubble Mart is not open, what with the spiders. I can see a man cupping his hands up against the glass and peering in, which feels a bit like having my privacy encroached on. I'm not going to open it, because the Bubble Mart is not open, but Mama yells "open the damn door," which is really what I've got to do now. Because if I don't, she will, and if she does, it's impossible to know what's going to happen.
So I go over to the door, the handle of which has already been reoccupied by a somewhat frightening daddy long legs, which, I'm telling the truth, is looking at me menacingly. I blow him out of the way and when I open the door standing in the door is a somewhat unsavory looking man. He has a collared shirt on, so there's that, but it's pretty gray around the edges and sort of fraying. I say to him,
"Are you here to clean your clothes? I'm afraid we're not open yet," which is when I notice that of course he's not carrying any clothes. Only a long cardboard tube which is also somewhat gray. "Well, I guess you're not here for that," I say, though the truth is that he does need to clean his clothes, but I don't have any interest in allowing him to clean the clothes that he's currently wearing because then he wouldn't be wearing any clothes, which would be an issue. And I really don't want to provoke Mama today, who's been in a sort of bad mood. I can tell because she's on her fifth cup of hibiscus tea. Good for the libido, she says, which I think she must not quite be understanding the meaning of. Then again, what do I know about the sexual systems of a 70-year-old woman?
The man just sort of comes in the door. I'm wondering now if he's mute. Or possibly deaf? He's carefully not stepping on spiders. He has this sort of bum look about him, but it's sort of obvious to me that, in fact, his clothes are already clean, but just permanently dirty, like in a way that even a laundromat cannot solve. I'm doing my best to stand between him and Mama, because despite his pretty disheveled quality, he is still a human of the male species.
"We're really not open yet," I say, which I think will at least prompt him to say why it is that he's sort of just busted right into the Bubble Mart. But instead, he walks over to Dryer#4 and pulls on the lint tray, which is still covered in lint from who-knows-when. Probably who ever's clothes those are doesn't even live here any more. Maybe they're dead.
He starts scraping at the lint, which I think is a bit presumptuous. But then again, there's a lot of cleaning to do and who am I to stop him? So I let him go on with the cleaning, and in a way, it's sort of a comfort to have another person here besides Mama, because otherwise I'd just get a lot of flack from her what with the still not being married and owning the Bubble Mart now instead of being the lawyer. But the truth is that I've never wanted to be a lawyer. Even desks terrify me. Not that I specifically wanted to own a Bubble Mart either, it was more that it sort of fell into my lap. Kind of jumped in, really, what with the good deal Mama got. The fluorescent lights are flickering and this guy is sort of looking up at them. I'm thinking maybe he's going to have a stroke, maybe he's going to fall down dead in the Bubble Mart right nexto to Dryer #4. Maybe then there'd be no more Bubble Mart what with the following law suit and the settlement and then what? Probably back to the Happy OK Lounge for me, the prospect of which I really cannot stand.
But luckily he survives and moves on to Dryer #5 and just starts with the cleaning of the lint, putting it all into this trash bin. Perhaps it's the lint he's after? So I go up to him and say,
"Is it the lint you want?" and he says,
"No man, just come to see what was going on in here," which strikes me as a bit odd. A bit off, but who can complain about free labor? I'm not your typical cheap Jew, no way do I have anything to do with that Shylock or whatnot. I'm a respectable and decent human, thinking of the world that we've all got our talents and we've got to use them where we've got them, and maybe this guy's just a really good lint cleaner, which certainly has it's own skills, there's no doubt.
Then Mama's mouth is in my ear, and she's saying, "What a mensch," which I can't decide whether it's an understatement or an over statement. She look over at him, and she says, "You're a real mensch," to which he says nothing, which is exactly what I would say if I had walked into a not-yet-open laundromat and started cleaning the lint from the dryers and an old wrinkly woman told me I was a mensch, which in all likelihood, this guy does not even know what that means. But he says,
"Thanks lady," and I've got this feeling like things are going to work out between the two of them, which is not actually a good thing necessarily, despite the fact that things working out, in general terms, is seen as a positive outcome.
I'll tell you a bit about my house when I was growing up. It was a pretty decent house, the sort of house that you could throw a shotgun all the through without it running into any walls, which is, I always assumed, why they call it a shotgun house. But it wasn't in the middle of Bumblefuck, Louisiana, which is where people generally think of the shotgun houses being. Mine was on a very fine street in Highland Park, which back then was generally full of a few apartment complexes but mainly large, sturdy houses which seemed to be always yawning, letting people in and out through their big open mouths, which always seemed like a pretty healthy way to be approaching the coming and going of humanity. But you could say my house was a bit of an anomaly, or perhaps if you want to think of the majority of the houses as well-adjusted, you might consider my house to be anal-retentive, in that so many things went into that house, but very few ever came back out. Including my mother.
As I said, lots of things went into that house. Many of them were made of paper, though only a very few of them were books. For who knows what reason Momma kept zigurrats of newspapers throughout the house. Fortunately for the family, that is me, my sister Carla, and my Momma, Poppa had an equally neurotic habit of collecting these pyramids and organizing them into stacks, which made chimney-like formations throughout the house that I figured would someday harden into solids, which was how I figured the hoodoos of Utah had formed. I guess that was the extent of the synergy between my parents, but it did form what you could call a kind of love.
If love has a sterile definition, that is what I think I mean. Something about the collecting and then organizing of the stacks of newspapers formed what I think you could call a tribal bond between them, which meant that, for the rest of the community, they were not so much excited about the newspapers, because it unified my parents into an angular force which acted in unison and was directed outward against the other families of the community.[Unknown A1]
Internally speaking, there were also a number of downsides to the newspaper piles. They were, you could say, a sort of accidental Magna Carta, because they formed a sort of peace between the ruling factions of the house. But on the other hand, because of their existence, it was merely assumed that order was in place and that action then always conformed to the rules set by the terms of this agreement. Which in reality meant that paternal aggression went unchecked and that maternal inconsistency was seen as a whim of the lawmaker and not a problem with the law.
Which left only Carla in the seat of the enforcer, because necessarily all familial ruling was an attempt to control the whims of a child named Cam Wrikes. Now I'm not saying I was a bad child, and I think psychologists would argue that it was a bad society and place no personal blame on the individual. But anyway that's how it stood in the Wrikes house.
I went to the local public schools, which meant I could walk home afterward, if I wasn't trying to score with a Jaunita or a Maria. Really there isn't anything worse than walking home alone from school, because that's really the moment when all the sick tapestry of life is catching up to you. Maybe it's a sort of noogie you got, or the laugh of yours which is a little too high to be deemed ordinary and so the kids make you laugh, which seems like a great thing, except then when you do they're laughing at, and not with, you. Or maybe what's on your mind is the inevitable lack of opportunity for enjoyment which it seems you are up against when finally you do get home, and are forced to sort of sit in the corner and trim candles, which is not a thing any ordinary person, never mind child, is supposed to be doing on an afternoon in the 1980s. But there I was, with the scissors and a box full of half-melted candles, and Momma sort of berating me no matter when I cut them with a perfect and frankly rather beautiful angle, or whether it was a sloppy job and the candle looked like it had been cut by a novice, which I guess you couldn't really call me since I had a lot of experience, though as usual no formal training. These were the kinds of rules that Cam was forced to abide by, although I never really understood what the punishment would be if I did not. It was more the looming threat, which I often imagined to be the fulfillment of any variety of nightmares. There was one where I would be forced to endure, like a school punishment, the endless repetition of my wrongs, only it was Carla who would be writing, over and over again in a rather pointy pen on my stomach, the misinterpreted angle of the wax, until inevitably I would be shorn in two by the repeated action. Or another where Poppa would put his thick hands right through my skin and pull my entire skeleton out, and I would be forced to run around with skin for quite a while until I learned my lesson. I pretty much figured that Dad's capacity for imagination was not stunted, as Mom's seemed to be, by the rather dusky environment of the narrow house, and that while he played whatever gambling-type games were available in the paper (he never gambled money, though I think in truth that would have been a healthy thing for him), he was Rolodexing aimlessly through various incredible disfigurements until the proper time came, the wheel stopped, and randomly I would be assigned some fate. I think it was more the idea of the randomness that kept me trimming the candles than the fear of the act itself. If I had known what specific thing awaited, I'm sure I could have managed to build psychic barriers against it, as all children have the capacity to do. But without the knowledge of what, I had no remedy to grasp, and was only able to earnestly ply my cutting capabilities without even some proper protocol for how to do this. Needless to say, my childhood was full of uncertainties.
There was one certainty, which was sister Carla. Carla was what British kids might call an odd chap. She was, as I said, the enforcer of rules in the house, because with Momma and Dad, they just assumed the rules were in play, and performed life as if they stayed unbroken, despite the predictable irrelevance of the laws. Carla, however, had a keen sense of what was meant by authority. When Momma berated me for leaving boots on in the house, and then later for taking them off on such a cold day when even inside I might get a cold (we had very little heat in what winter there is to speak of in Los Angeles), Carla understood that what Momma wanted was for us to make dinner. When Poppa ate canned tuna for dinner, even when Carla and I were in the middle of planning the meal, and Cam was cutting potatoes into perfectly agitating little cubes, Carla understood that Poppa had been denied again his promotion at the auto shop. These things were never said, but later at night Carla often whispered them to me from the top bunk.
It was through her that I began to understand the goings-on of adult life, which frankly shouldn't have interested me in the least, considering how little it seemed to have any interest in me. It was almost as if the two worlds were like completely separate universes which spun in great circles and rarely, but once in a while, touched their edges like great, unhappy kisses. If you think that's interesting, than you might call Carla the shock wave, that sent down to me mostly the fact of the touching, and not generally any news from beyond.
Mathematically, I was a bit of flop, numerically challenged said Mr. Alvaro, which wasn't super nice but was probably a bit accurate. None of my other teachers quite had the device for describing my inabilities that Mr. Alvaro had, but even I, who belonged so wholeheartedly to the child's universe, could see in their eyes the plaintiff plea that I frankly get the hell out of there. I'm not sure what it was that caused them to so despise me, since I generally sat perfectly quiet in class, but thinking back perhaps it was the not-talking that was the problem, the not-voicing of opinions which agitated them. I think they would have preferred to have known and been able to prove to themselves that I was what they thought - a bit slow - than not to know and to have to butt up their expectations against a mute reality. It seems fairly true that they would have preferred to punish me, to beat my hands with rulers, to make me hold a piece of paper to the chalkboard with my nose, than to be unsure of what I thought, though they might have been disappointed by what they may have found out, except in that I thought not at all about them, which might have caused them to rip their pants in half out of rage, which at least would have made me a hero with the other students. Though as far as they were concerned, if they considered me the treasure of their treason, and the well-spring of their petty rebelliousness, and raised me up on occasion during recess and stuck their hands in my pockets thinking they might get a bit of whatever magic I was drinking, they acted out of their own desire to have a champion, and not because I was actually the champion they needed.
So I'm at home one of these typical Wrikean evenings. I'm trimming candles in my corner, Carla is eating raisins for a snack, sort of laughing I think but then again maybe just enjoying the satisfying chewiness of the dried grape. Momma had a cold, and hadn't left the dining room/bedroom/candle-trimming room for a long while, a month maybe. And Poppa was getting very upset about the whole thing, but he never showed emotion, because sadly that was his way, as I mentioned with the not-getting-the-promotion incident earlier. It was generally up to Carla to interpret and then pass on to me any of Poppa's desires. This particular evening, it was February and it felt almost appropriate for me to be trimming candles, Poppa was drinking orange juice in small glassfuls, sitting alone at the kitchen table which was clearly visible from where I sat with my scissors and wax. Carla comes up to me from the opposite way and sits next to me, yearning I think for me to ask her something, but I don't because how am I supposed to know what to say? How am I supposed to know what Carla wants sitting next to me on this night? If I knew what Carla wanted, I wouldn't even need to ask, because then I'd already know. And if I didn't know, what would have prompted me to ask in the first place? I would only assume that she had come to sit next to me to enjoy a fraternal affection.
She eats the last of her raisins, and says to me halfheartedly, almost in an offhand way, "Momma's dying," which of course I knew. So since I've got nothing more to say on that matter, I go on with the trimming. So she says, "It's unlike Poppa to be drinking so much juice, in fact it's worrisome, almost more worrisome than Momma dying. Because Momma dying is only the natural consequences of life, whereas Poppa drinking juice, this much juice anyway, is a totally abnormal occurrence." Well this all makes sense, although I do find it funny that I am the only one who thinks that maybe Momma is not dying, maybe she's not even really particularly sick. Maybe she's just lying there as randomly as Poppa's drinking juice, which for all I really know, could be just because he's thirsty. But I don't usually argue with Carla, no one really argues around here. So we sit there a moment and then Carla says,
"It's about the china. He's worried because he doesn't know what's going to happen to Grandma's china if Momma dies. He doesn't think he'll have the self-restraint to not sell it, to keep it out of sentimental value, because he's not a very sentimental person, perhaps not sentimental at all. But he's also not certain that Momma doesn't know that already, and that Momma hasn't already willed the china to somebody else, like to you or me, for example. And he's also worried that if that's the case, he won't have the self-restraint to not just sell the china anyway, knowing that we as children won't have the recourse of the law, or won't really be able to register that we were being taken advantage of. And he doesn't want to take advantage of us, because we are his kids, but he does want the money from the china, which he thinks will offset the fact that most of the money for the house doesn't come from his job as an autoworker, what with him not getting the raise, but rather from some sort of a trust fund - I'm a bit unclear on this exactly - that will not continue once Momma dies."
What I was mainly looking forward to was being out from under the yolk of the candle trimming, and maybe with that done, I could have afternoons to play with other students. Which was a bit of a funny thing for me to want, if you knew how I felt about other students, which was something like this: they stank. It was more that their arrogance, the ease with which they, for example, squirted water into their mouths through the plastic water bottles, was offensive. I'll admit I can be rather judgmental and I don't feign indifference, even if I don't like it in myself. But I did have this feeling that the arrogance which was so clearly on display from the locker-room swagger, and the other ways in which they tended to form a wall that was impossible for me to climb, what with my vaguely puny nature and the total lack of plastic water bottles with squirting lids - that all of this was grounds not for a premature death, but definitely for a painfully long purgatory. Maybe I self-selected myself out from the group, but wouldn't I rather sit on the grassy hill overlooking the soccer fields while Maria gave Juanita, who's jocular doof of a boyfriend played some kind of running position on the soccer team, a fullhearted, though admittedly un-useful backrub. It wasn't my love of women - that came much later, because like I said I was a rather puny 13-year-old - but the type of love that they gave one another that attracted me to the sidelines. It was a type of love that endeared me to their hands in particular, a place, really, where I could feel free to indulge in vanity. One might say to the other, "You look super cute in that dress," which as an outsider to their language gave me the shivers of what remained unsaid, a boastful, egotistical put-down in the form of an unsolicited comment. But on the surface, they meant it completely, which always impressed me. Men, it seemed to me, showed their vanity outwardly in the form of gestures, a placing of the hand on my shoulder, for example, while simultaneously squeezing too hard for comfort. Or maybe they made simple statements of power, like "Go home to your Momma, Momma's boy," which I always found strange because they had never met my Momma most likely, and how would they know about the wax-cutting? But Juanita and Maria hid their power struggles in beauty, in compliments which did, in truth, hold some superficial semblance of actual delicious love. It was the acting of the affection that caught me up, because I found that at home, when I was relegated to my corner, and Carla was elsewhere and couldn't come tell me what was going on in the world beyond the dull cloud of darkness which shrouded my perception, I began to act out scenes of warmth, or even of despair, between Momma and Poppa, which always underneath meant something different, but not so different as to be indistinguishable from the gesture. And this I found refreshing, to rebrand my parents, but more than that, it helped me to begin to understand the mystery that Carla had for so long monopolized - that is, what adults meant when they did whatever it was they were doing.
The ray of hope here glistened off the various stacks of newspaper and shone in the spider webs. But it was not meant for me to understand - because just as the enigmas that I called Momma and Poppa began to unpuzzle themselves, Momma died, and left us with the one remaining and uninterpretable gesture: death.
Poppa, in his unexpected despair, seemed to think this enigma was directed at him. Not so much the dying, because that had been happening for some time, but the death itself, and he fumed and went about the house stacking and unstacking the chimneys of newspaper, saying things like, "the pettiness of it," or "stick to the plan, why not just stick to the plan?" For my own sake, though I had so longed for the freedom of afternoons and the acted love of Juanita and Maria, I found myself at home trimming candles. It was, I had found out, all I really knew how to do.
Momma's death - I feel like I'm supposed to have more to say about this. But don't I? Sure, it changed things forever, what with her body lying on the couch but not moving for what, three days? And what with Poppa speaking to it and organizing and reorganizing the newspaper stacks, and Carla not even around for weeks afterward. And what with me trimming the same candles over and over until they were mere thumbs of wax, and how I threw one into the grave but then, regretting it, yelled and yelled until Poppa got the grave digger to go down in there where she was and retrieve it. She had no friends, Momma, unless you count me and Carla and Poppa, but we didn't have a choice but to be there. Somebody came who said she was a representative of Momma's mama, but Poppa said "no way, get the hell outta here you good for nothing cunt," and so she left and that was that. There was of course a preacher, but his flabby face and possible toupee didn't give him the air of gravity I think he was hoping for. Poppa called him a "hypocritical slime," which would have made me laugh under other circumstances, because that was just the kind of humor that I enjoyed, but by the side of the grave in that strange sunny mist that sometimes happens, it had all the seriousness of the Adoremus, and perhaps became the calling card for all of Poppa's future angst against generally everybody, but in particular people like priests or bus drivers, people who you really couldn't escape from if you wanted to get anywhere in life and didn't own a car, the second of which was definitely true of Poppa, and the first of which is generally considered true of most people, though I don't think particularly applies to the Wrikes family.
Here's the thing about facts. They're not provable. Especially once the evidence is gone, but surprisingly even when the evidence is there, even when it's staring you right in the face, especially if what's staring you right in the face is the face of your dead wife. What I'm saying is that Poppa didn't believe it - couldn't believe it - despite what I generally assumed was certainty, the whole not breathing thing, which I always thought of as a surefire way to understand if a thing was alive. But not so for Poppa. He had been prepared, that evening, for his usual, which generally involved not-doing while others did. But for him, the not-doing held purpose, was intentional, was even possibly planned out well in advance. It was the very planning that kept him rolling on a course, and when reality diverted from it, he decided to follow the course he had already created rather than the course of things dictated by the physical world. And who could say that that was wrong, when it has always been well known that one man calls a bathroom what another calls the shitter, and one considers morality what another calls repression, and one considers economic reality what another calls bondage. And once the path is taken, once the diverging episode occurs and necessarily a choice is made, if the choice is to stay the course, than sooner or later the course will be so far from the goings-on that the rest of us seem to think of as fact, that the two will interact only in the sense that the continue on in time at roughly the same rate.
So on the evening of Momma's death, Poppa opened the newspaper and expected, as did I, the beratings to begin - trim more here, don't hold it like that, and the usual. When they did not come, I thought myself merely lucky for the day, though I was willing to entertain the notion that perhaps the unexpected note of silence was worth a shift in my perception. To test the facts, I began to trim sloppily, lazily castings wax shavings first tentatively then more rapidly and with in fact purposeful abandon, and yet received no reprimand. I snuck up behind her couch, where she had lain for a month, and peered over the tattered armrest. The resemblance was incredible, she looked just like Mamma, but also just like a perfectly trimmed wax candle. I crawled to the open side of the couch and buried my head in her skirts, and soon Carla joined me and together we buried our heads and smelled the acrid odor of stagnant life mingling with new, unexpected scents of liquids so used to churning, coming to a halt and beginning to mix with the everyday static. I did not see Poppa come over, but soon I was pushed violently back to my quarter, and told to continue my trimming, but I had no heart for the job, and the imminent fear of having my skeleton ripped from my skin seemed the petty outcome of a child's imagination, one I suddenly no longer had the interest to indulge in.
So I continued my daily routines, though I managed to sneak in a candy bar or two and I trimmed wax very poorly, but Poppa had never paid much attention to my skills, and though he now filled the empty space with his voice, his words were meaningless. He hadn't he finesse. (Her body was finally removed by the coroner's office after a neighbor, apparently, had called it in.)
So that's when I stopped attending school - school was the same as usual, but now there was basically a financial problem, which was that apparently Poppa's auto job was really not all that solid, which possibly explained his general grumpiness in the days or actually years following Mommas death, and which also explained why I woke up one day and instead of going to school I went to this sort of second-hand store, which was really more of a first-hand store that sold clothes nobody who generally shopped at first hand stores would want to buy, like these horrible onesies and shoes I do not think even homeless people would have wanted to wear.
The shop was run by a man named Steve, who strangely had a son whose name was also Steve, but who people generally called the Arm, because he could knock someone around a bit even for an 8 year old, and even did so. Now Steve had been running this shop for at least 7 years, which even in the first week struck me as odd, because really no one came into this place, and why would they? It was called "Mima's Second Hand," which was fine and everything, but it was run by a man named Steve and his little son called the Arm, and there were no Mimas to be found, and further, the only women's clothes that were even available were these sort of unisexual short-sleeved jumpsuits, which you could barely call suitable for any human beings.
My job was to iron these tags onto the inside of the various random, usually neon outfits that came by the bag-load from this big white truck every Tuesday morning. Tuesday was ironing day, which meant that generally it was just me and the Arm at the store because, for whatever reason, when the new clothing items arrived, Steve was definitely not there. The Arm had a bit of an attitude for an 8-year-old, which was perhaps to be expected considering the vast amount of experience he had, relatively speaking at least. I generally got along with the Arm, by which I mean he, although probably half my weight and definitely without any sort of underarm hair or small hairs on his testicles, sat on this tall stool in the corner and read these various men-themed magazines. Where he got them was a mystery, because Steve struck me as an entirely asexual being, really more cloud than man. But the Arm would sit on this tall stool and all day read, or look, but definitely more with the semblance of reading than looking, while I did this ironing job. The tag, of course, said Mima's Second Hand, and I had to iron it over a sort of printed on tag which always had some misspelled company name, like "Hnes" or "Fruut of the Lomb." The Arm, despite obviously being the son of Steve, had something in common with Momma, in that he always sat in the same place and definitely never said much but nevertheless there was no way I was going to not do the ironing with the Arm around. When the Arm did speak, he had a sort of Billy Holiday rasp, which was unusually sultry considering both his age and his gender, but then again who's to say that its charm was any the more diminished on account of the facts?  If Poppa could go on imagining, no, existing in a world where Momma lay and as usual gave orders though her soul or maybe more it was her smell had left her body completely, then perhaps the order of things as we knew it, or rather as we assumed it to be, was a figment of someone else's imagination, though whose I am to afraid to ask.
There was an odd day in late 2000 when in comes Steve, and he's pretty excited, you can tell because of the sweat on his face, which is more pronounced than usual. He's ranting, which is not totally unlike him, but generally not like him either, and he's pacing around the aisles of the crammed little store, paying no attention to various large garments which are falling off the wall and crumpling onto the floor like empty skins in his wake. So I say,
"Steve, are you OK?" and he says,
"Hell no, not OK." He comes over the table I'm ironing on, though by now I've just been staring at him for a bit and not ironing, but holding the iron still in my hand. He shuffles through the clothes on the table until he finds one with the name "Calvin Clone." He holds it up really close to me face.
"You recognize this?" he says. Meanwhile I'm trying to focus on the unitard, which is about 2 inches to close to my face for focusing on, so I don't say anything because I'm pretty sure it's a rhetorical question.
"OK, so you don't recognize it?" he says, "well that's great, at least your honest," which is a bit of a surprising thing to say because I generally don't think of not saying something with honesty, but I guess it's the same to him at this point.
"But you'll admit," he says, "that it does not say Calvin Klein?"
"Yah, I'm pretty sure it says Calvin Clone," I say, and so he says,
"Oy God, no it's really over," he says, pulling the fabric from my face and sort of lying down all over the table while still standing. Generally I think of that as a good thing, things being definitely over I mean, having lived, after all, through a period of days during which my Momma, though most certainly not living, was not allowed to be dead, was held in an unwilling purgatory by the projected imagination of Poppa. So when things are over, that is good, great even, because it's distinct and definitely full of the sound of truth. But I'm still sort of curious what he means, how good this overness really is, so I say,
"What's over?" to which he says,
"Mima's," which is, I'll admit, a bit sad and not as hopeful as I thought. But I still don't understand, which I contribute actually to my understanding generally quite a bit, but not having enough of why the shop is now suddenly, after eight years of existing in a seeming state of absolute deadness, over. I want to ask, but I don't want to disturb his thoughts, so I sort of start ironing some more tags onto some more clothes.
"Stop stop stop!" Steve says, standing up suddenly. "OK, I'll tell you why it's over. You recognized that the thing, whatever that clothing thing is, didn't say Calvin Klein, and frankly you're only a medium-smart kid. It's not like you're Mozart or Einstein, you're just an average kid who didn't even finish school and works ironing phony tags onto shirts. But even you can recognize the obvious fraud. But you know who can't? George, that's who, goddamn George."
"Who's George, daddy," says the Arm in a way that makes "daddy" sound more like a term of lustful endearment than the general use of word, someone's Poppa.
"The President, of the United States," says Steve, now starting to see if he can rip one of the Mima's tags from a particularly egregiously colored specimen. Well, I'm a bit surprised that the President of the United States has been looking at Mima's clothing items, but also admittedly a bit proud. But this does not seem to be a moment of pride, generally, so I don't say anything like "Wow, the President is wearing one of your onesies," or "you must really be someone big," although in my heart I do now think of Steve as a pretty extraordinary person.
"No, it's not about the onesies," says Steve, "it's about Iraq and the WMDs and the whole state of things, really. But also it's about Mima's."
"Is this about Stephen, daddy," says the Arm, this time sounding like a late Bette Davis, a little past her prime and into the What Ever Happened to Baby Jane phase.
"Who's Stephen," I say, because the only person I know whose name is Steven is the Arm and Steve, and neither of them go by Stephen.
"Stephen is my elder brother," says the Arm, sniffing like he's inhaling some snuff. Well I had no idea the Arm had an older brother, and actually the entire idea of Steve mating once, never mind twice, is a bit shocking. "And he's a soldier," continues the Arm. What all of this has to do with Mima's I have no idea, and probably Steve's just being dramatic, which is not totally surprising though this level of despair is not altogether promising.
We spend the rest of the day packing boxes. Knitted caps, ties with various small animals on them, these objects that you might call shoes but which bordered on boot or clog or possibly dog bowl, and of the course the ubiquitous neon onesies. Hangers, shelving, the few hand-made signs, various bankers boxes filled with papers, a wonderful, almost embarrassing corporate dartboard with various lazy activities etched onto the red and black velvet, "go to lunch," "get a raise," though I'd never seen anybody play darts. Steve is still looking pretty harrowed, though he's managing to do a bit of helping, and the Arm, despite his alleged strength, is neatly folding tee-shirts and organizing them by color, which Steve is in too much of a huff to see or care about.
For my part, I'm rather pleased by all the goings-on. Like I was sort of mentioning earlier, I like when things happen, my general state being somewhere between anxious and irritable, which probably explains my mother's obsession with candles, and her probably altruistic desire to hand down to me the merits of positive work. This particular case is extra special because I am not driven merely by my desire to escape from the general state of discomfort that static non-activity induces, but also I've absorbed a certain amount of Steve's excitement, even though I've still got really no clue what it's all about, which I generally find is the place I'm most likely to find myself. The world loves to keep its secrets from me, and adults, being more a part of the world than anything else, fall easily into the world's sphere of influence, and so there I am, packing up this shop which had so faithfully employed me, my first real role of responsibility, and feeling pretty solid about the whole affair.
So then up shows this big white truck, which looks completely like the truck which is usually dropping off all the clothes. Nobody comes out of the driver seat, so I've still got no clue who's driving, but we're loading up this truck with boxes which used to be Mima's Second Hand, and I'm a bit surprised by how it all fits into just a few boxes, what was once a home, reduced to meager facelessness.
*** (Scene needs to end, Cam goes home)
So I'm back at home, and Poppa is acting absolutely strange, which seemed like a coincidence considering the strangeness of Steve earlier in the day. But for the same reason, I'm not totally surprised, and in fact a bit comforted that it wasn't just Steve. On the other hand, it's a bit terrifying because I get the feeling like maybe it's not just Steve and Poppa, but perhaps an unlikely illness that they both have caught, which means probably I'll catch it to. So just like with Steve, I say,
"What's wrong, Poppa?" And Poppa is a bit more guarded than Steve, and he even recoils just a bit, while Carla is sitting in the corner and knitting, which is an odd and actually unlikely habit she picked up since Momma died. It's unlikely because I always thought of Carla as a basically progressive person, in that she would not have chosen to be like adults especially in her habits. The fact that she always understood them at such a young age was a clue to this, because as she always said, you must seek first to understand, then to be understood. But I think for her it stopped at the seek first to understand, and once she did, once she understood death, she was no longer interested in being understood, and the knitting was a sort of remedy against parental intrusion.
So Poppa recoils with a sort of deer-in-headlights look, like he's suddenly noticed for the first time that he's got a 13 year old child, which is in fact a bit of a novelty for him because it was also my birthday, so really he'd never had a 13 year old child before unless you count Carla, so I guess he'd never had a 13 year old son, which was maybe what was bothering him. But he had, for an entire year, had a 12 year old son, and before that an 11 year old son, so for that reason alone I didn't expect it to surprise him that he had a 13 year old son. But for the first time I can really remember, he addresses me directly, as if we were peers. He says,
"Are you at all surprised? I'm not, no sir, I saw it coming all the time. The Authorities do not have a beat," (here he winks at me) "and even if so, I don't think they'd trace any of this back to me. I was just trying to support my family, which I think of as a morally beneficial task, and so I think they would understand that effort, and perhaps even dismiss it. Then again, it's also possible that I could be used as an example of misconduct, in which case my own motives would be tossed aside, and the people would only see my actions." Well, this is a bit of an odd development, so I say,
"Did you ever think that there was some other way? I had a job at Mima's, you know. That was a way forward, though they closed the shop today." He looks at me with an almost comical expression of empathy, and pats my hair.
"Did you ever think that there was some other way?" he says, which to me means that he certainly did not understand what I had said, which is totally typical with adults. "Listen it happened like this." Here he seats me on the couch, patting the cushion beside him.
"You know Steve, who runs Mima's Second Hand? His son Stephen works for the army. I know this because now I'm a janitor at a hair salon that mainly has customers from the military, because they specialize in a crew cut, which the soldiers either prefer or are forced to wear, I'm not sure. My job is to sweep their hair, once it is trash, into large trash bags, making sure none of the hair stays on the ground too long, but also I'm not supposed to look desperate for work and snap up the hair to readily, which would either be a sign of greed or of disparity, neither of which the people in the army want to be forced to think about, so says Mr. Hartman, the overseer. So Stephen comes in, and he is rather excited, asking for the Special Crew, which I know to be simply a regular crew cut with a different lotion but which for that reason costs quite a bit more. It's unusual for Stephen to come in at all, and especially unusual for him to ask for the Special Crew, which is usually reserved for people in higher ranks than him. Which is apparently also what Mr. Hartman is thinking, because he asks Stephen if he just got promoted to a higher rank in the army, to which Stephen says no, sir, and that's the end of that conversation. But then," and here he's got his hand on my knee, "in comes Lt. Gnl. Bryant, and Stephen is looking terribly awkward and worried, most likely that Lt Gnl. Bryant will see him getting a Special Crew, which is well beyond his rank but certainly not beyond Lt. Gnl. Bryant's rank.
"Stephen, which is very unlike him, sneaks out from right under the razor without paying or leaving a remotely generous tip, though he does take a mint from the jar on the way out. Mr. Hartman and Lt. Gnl. Bryant do have a special relationship, since Mr. Hartman was in the army and was himself a Lt. Gnl. until he retired and took over the salon. So apparently he feels comfortable enough and asks the Lt. Gnl. about Stephen's odd behavior, to which the Lt. Gnl replies that Stephen is under court martial, and is likely to be sent to Iraq as a Special Ops, all of which surprises me, but primarily because Stephen's family always seemed a fairly honorable family which I don't think has ever had anyone sent to Special Ops. Mr. Hartman, apparently emboldened by the generous reply, asks Lt. Gnl. Bryant whether anyone yet knows what Stephen did, to which the Lt. Gnl. says that no one can yet be sure, considering he was only just court marshaled and usually these things take months if not years to work out, but he believed, and this isn't on the record (to which Mr. Hartman does the lip-zipping gesture and I stop sweeping temporarily to hear) that Stephen was part of a counterfeiting operation, which produced a number of surprisingly small coinage, mostly quarters, out of a basement on Chung King Road in Chinatown, Los Angeles, specifically the building across from the Happy OK Lounge, which served three candy-coated almonds with every Tsingtao. Mr. Hartman takes it all in very approvingly, nodding his head I see, I see, which is a wonderful thing to see in an old and respectable veteran."
"And what do you have to do with this?" I say, after which Poppa says,
"So you're probably wondering what I have to do with all of this, aren't you? You are my son after all, and this affects you too." I'm relatively pleased by the fact that he has acknowledged, for the first time in my own life, that I am his son, and so I hold his elbow and nod graciously, because I think at least he'll understand that, because I am pretty curious about what this man who is my father has to do with all of this, how this affects me, and almost more importantly, why I no longer have a job at Mima's, and to be frank, I'm hoping this might clear up the very fact that Mima's no longer exists.
"You could probably start the story when I was first born, because really it does go back that far. Otherwise, how could you account for my actions? But suffice it to say it was never in my cards to be a wealthy man, despite my parents relative comfort. When I was a child, my father would tax my allowance, handing me the crisp bills and then, in his tall arrogant way, stealing, as he would call it, up to 50% of what he had just given. I can still smell the must on his hands as he pulled the bills from my weak child's hands. I think he hoped it would turn me into a conservative, and maybe in his heart he hoped it would make me greedy. But instead it only made me hate the way he was constantly manipulating the truth.
It was a time of either great misgiving or self-righteousness, depending on your outlook. We lived in a long, old home in Berkeley, onto the back of which my parents had added a large, triangular room that functioned as a library, and when they held parties, a living room, where books were left casually out on the tables, men lolled effervescently on sofas, and grissini women dropped highballs onto the wooden floor with surprising regularity. Mother sat in a wicker chair with a throned back like a rampant cobra, pulling the middles from shelled peanuts and placing the empty husks into a Wedgewood vase, like she was depositing coins into a charity basket. Generally people only spoke to her, she rarely spoke to others, her finger would caress the wicker bumps, and the caressing left dead spots in the white paint. I would often sit on the floor by her chair, where I was given a truck, often, though I myself preferred dolls, dolls with long, braidable hair and pudgy, soft hands that you could squeeze between two fingers. Because the truck was so dull, with its stiff wheels and cold yellow metal, I spent many hours watching Mother stroke the wicker.
"Father wore large squarish yellow plastic glasses that looked a bit like an old bruise and had a subtle fade that gave the impression of chicness, or furthered the bruised look, depending how you saw it. He often had checkered suits, sort of ensembles, he was very popular with other men, though not too many women found him an attractive person to be with, I could tell that even as a young person. He would often talk loudly of politics, which helped to further the impression of absolute smallness I already felt. When women came to see Mother, they would often pay homage to me, patting me on the head, letting me feel a large emerald, or asking me to choose which of them I liked more, to which question I would actually play for a moment with my truck. The endless procession of glossy red, brown, or white heels was only broken by the odd puzzle piece, a pair of red Converse Allstars, because Jane Horowitz would never wear Adidas or Pumas, which she claimed were founded by Nazis.
"I found myself very attracted to Jane, who was a woman who worked under Father at the hospital. In addition to the red Converse, she wore jeans and a varsity sweater with a large megaphone on it. I have no idea how old she was, probably 30 at the time, and Mother and Father were either neglectful, over-trusting in Jane, or outright spiteful towards me for something which I still cannot put a finger on, even though I've gone through every memory I can, again and again, which is why I was never very talkative when your Momma was alive.
"The outcome of this trust, or whatever it was, was that I spent nearly every afternoon at Jane's house, once school was out. At first, because she knew I detested the trucks I was forced to play with at the adult parties, she let me play with a vast collection of antique circus knock-down dolls made of rough canvas, painted with blues and reds, and haloed about with white fur that was a delight to stroke, though too short to be braidable. I would sit in a wonderful room underneath a grand piano and love these dolls, stroking their fine fur, rubbing the deliciously rough canvas, while above me Jane would play rollicking tunes on the piano, dancing her light fingers over the keys, and together we would make a true and exquisite symphony.
"This continued for some years, Jane retiring to a high shelf the old dolls when they were too worn and fragile, and threatened to come apart. Her piano playing got more brisk and brooding, and I began to become more enamored with watching her feet press the pedals, the fine hair on her substantial legs, the mussels flexing and relaxing into softness with each beat. I tickled her now with the fuzzy edge of the doll, and her continuing to play and the music getting perhaps more brisk and more brooding, I ventured up her legs, over the bend of her knee, and finally, amorously and adventurously, into the dark odoriferous space between her thighs.
"My role at the dinner parties had changed somewhat since I first met Jane, and now I sat at a card table and poured cocktails for the guests, a trick, I suppose, that was meant to make me seem the young man that I was becoming in my parents eyes, but not in Jane's, nor in my own. When I was nearing 16, so this was quite a bit later, Jane asked my parents if she could take me on a trip to Oregon in her station wagon. We were sitting at the kitchen island one morning, Mother cooking eggs, Father reading his papers, and Jane knocked on the door and entered busily into our morning routine, which was completely unexpected. The surprise for my parents, who hated anything that broke their day's plans, except the so-called spontaneous activities that Mother and me did when Father was away at conferences or whatnot, which were always well-planned in advance, like go mini-golfing, which I detested but which Mother thought was just wonderful fun, or see the newest movie that was meant for children at least 5 years younger than I. So you see I was caught between their desire for me to become the next generation of paper-reading, secretary-having man, and their desire for me to remain forever the Tonka-truck child, so they would justify their own extravagance as parents.
"So when Jane came in during the morning, when I was still a child to them, eating cereal, drinking milk, asking for seconds and playfully neglecting dishes only to by kindly reprimanded and repent, it was a real blow to their ego; their whole way of life, I believe, was threatened in that moment. I am not altogether certain what they thought I had been doing with Jane for the last 12 years, but they must have been happy to illude themselves, or else they merely accepted that what was, was, as long as it did not interfere with their own vision of parental success. It is also possible that their own passions, so gladly relieved when I was away, so overwhelmed their senses to make them blind. This latter one I doubt, however, because other than the orthodox kiss that attended leavings and comings, I never saw even the playful but squeeze, nor did I ever catch Father grabbing Mother from behind while she stood with her yellow rubber gloves on, holding a soapy dish and a sponge, arching her neck back while she received kisses in the tenderest of places, behind the ears.
"Jane is wearing the usual Chucks and jeans shorts and sweater, and I can see the tensing of her legs, of which I am so familiar, that she is in a mood to mourn, to protest, to wear a black band if Father and Mother will not let me go with her to Oregon. I'm aroused by the sight of her, and embarrassed to be eating cereal, the combination, however, heightening both sensations. She waits in the doorway to the kitchen, having put forth her demand, because that is what it was. Mother and Father look at one another the way two people who haughtily presume they can know the answers to all life's questions might look at one another when another inane question is asked of them. And their decision is made, though nothing is said - Father goes out of the room, taking Jane by the shoulder as if to conference, Mother comes over to smooth my hair and ask me if I would like more cereal, or is it that you have enough cereal, or perhaps it's too dry and needs more milk?
"From the other room, I can hear the door close, the lock slide into place, and Father returns, as if he had perhaps just thrown a spider from the house that Mother was too afraid to touch or see. He goes back to his paper, shifting it often, crossing and uncrossing his trousered legs. But he cannot focus, so he puts it down, looks me in the eye, and says, "That's e-goddamn-nough of that," and he grabs his coat, hat, and briefcase and goes out the door, leaving me and mother to absorb the unexpected aftershock.
"Mother cleans plates, bowls, puts away milk, sends me off to school, after which I come home instead of going to Jane's. Because I know she will not be there, she will be on her way to Oregon, on the adventure that would spring her forward into the modern era, but without her little companion, without me, the one on whom the future of her happiness seemed to depend.
"Needless to say, home life was over for me that day. I managed to live out the next two years of existence, scratching the days into my wall quite literally, leaving my parents to hire a maid for their cocktail parties, staying holed up in my room and reading with zeal the poetry of Ferlinghetti and Ginsberg, writing inane lines about abominable corpses playing out their own afterlives, while those same corpses drifted below, speaking of suburban bliss, and all of them wearing heels and loafers. Not a sneaker to be found.
"I graduated high school. There was still some elitism left in me after all, but I had effectively lost any privilege that I could have gained from the financial and social status of my parents. Although the streets of the Haight were still full of the positive social movement of 1966, I was synical enough to move to Los Angeles.  I need to pause here," said Poppa, and it's true he sort of looks like the speaking was pulling the blood from his veins, and he had this very tired and odd gaze that looked not at me, but either through or beyond me. He refuses water I offered him.
"Oh right, Los Angeles," he goes on, his palms are flat on the table. "I found lodging in the basement of what was then a convenience store on Chung King Road. It sold mainly Chinese goods with labels I could not read, wrapped in gold foil or white paper with red stamped lettering. My apartment, if you could call it that, was one fairly large room, lit only by a hanging bulb in the middle. I found a mattress, a beautiful floor desk, and a rug, all of which I pulled from the streets. The floor was concrete and the walls were dank plaster, crumbling in marvelous patterns that I followed for hours as I lay on the carpet. That was my main entertainment, but it did not bore me. The patterns, which seemed to change daily, I followed with the intensity of a lepidopterist studying the wing patterns of a moth. I don't think I had anything in mind - merely the continuing, outward motion of the mind, a certain humming world which I knew to exist, and I was certain could be pulled from any naturally occurring patterns. The revealed the structural beams, which were irregular and only by an act of pure imagination was I able to piece together, from the plaster's crazing, a semblance of the mind structure of the builder, what his plans were, how he worked, how to occasionally compromised his plans in favor of convenience.
"All of this gave me hope that having lost Jane was not for nothing; that I had gained by it insight into the inner-workings of things. If I had been in different circumstances, propped up by friends and adorers, pedestalized and made to perform, it's possible I could have gained some fame. But as it was I knew no one except the shop owner, and I mainly knew him because I had to get the key from him to use the bathroom, which was a porcelain orifice in the ground that gaped at me and made me think of the difference between it - unmoving, unmovable - and Jane - soft, yielding, encapsulating.
"My trips through the shop, looking at various unreadable boxes wrapped in brown paper and tied with red and white string like at a bakery, or stacks of white plates with blue patterns, separated by thin eggshell muslin, either to get to the entrance to the stairs which led to my home, or to the bathroom, which were in the opposite back corners of the store, gave to me a sense of comfort, but of an unused comfort, which for that reason was disturbing, the way a perfect plate of dinner food, a log pile of green beans, a cloudly heap of mashed potatoes, and a leg and thigh of a broiled chicken, might appeal to the comforts of home, but when left alone on a table, and perhaps seen rather in the morning than at night, speaks loudly of an unquenchable loneliness, abandonment, and displacement.
"When I was able to detach myself from this feeling, the silence clued me into something else, namely that no one ever came in to the shop. No one ever bought the lovely plates or the cast iron teapots ribbed with waffling textures. I had seen the owner shuffling through the store in the old cloth slippers that he constantly wore, dusting the china with a cheap faux-feather duster, made of strips of old t-shirts tied to the end of a wooden handle. I doubted its effectiveness often and chastised him playfully in passing for using such an ineffectual tool, but I never questioned why it was so necessary to dust - it seemed merely a thing to do to pass the time. Occasionally there were new packages, of different shapes or of different colors, sometimes in yellow, sometimes in blue, with different characters printed on them, though I could pull no meaning from the symbols. This was as much a mystery to me as the fact that the china never left, because, as I was saying, never did I see anyone enter the door, nor did I ever hear the bells affixed to the handle jingle with the pleasant sound of commerce. Only the old man who came and went, 10 - 6 everyday as if he were merely the perpetually haunting ghost of some abandoned mansion, where once he lived a glorious life. It was as if I were living in a twilight, except that the ghosts of the patrons, the Chinese matrons who needed salt for pickling or new tableware for their growing families, and the young bachelors who came to stock their sparse pantries with two plates, two bowls, a teapot and strainer, and perhaps two place mats if they were hopeful and expected either other immigrant bachelors or possibly some young woman to join them on occasion in their bare apartments, these ghosts had not yet arrived, were perhaps not yet dead, perhaps still lived in their flats, went hopefully out to greet the days and possibly run into an acquaintance under the pagoda of the train station.
"The lives of these others filled my mind, filled my own sparsely furnished basement flat, until I imagined perhaps I would run into an old friend in the streets and invite him over for tea.
"I inquired after the price of two plates and cast iron steeping pot just big enough to two cups of green tea, but I ad no money, and only wanted to show interest so that the owner had some glimmer of hope to move his days forward, so that when he saw me, he might still consider himself among the living, and in his own home above the shop, more ornately outfitted, I imagined, with traditional wall-hangings depicting far off mountains for which he longed, yearn, rather than bemoan, the coming day.
"This moved me, too, because I liked to imagine I was participating in a thriving community of immigrants who, like me, had been driven out by undesirable circumstances.
"But slowly, I began to think more of the packages that left, than those that stayed. Where did they go? And from where did the new ones arrive? And when was this all happening? Perhaps the old man would deliver them himself on the rusting bicycle I saw in the alleyway, to the front of which a metal basket was affixed, the kind which a small girl might use to carry her dolls. I thought of Jane and her dolls, too. Was she back in Berkeley by now, or had she settled somewhere in the North, collecting some other, unknown accessories, playing perhaps a guitar now for new men who listened casually but attentively, and stroked their beards and stroked the beards that grew between her thighs when she allowed them. Did she think of me in those moments, perhaps even silently whisper my name? I doubted it, she was an adult and wasn't forming her full conception of life around our experiences, while my brain had been fully formed in the image of her tensing calves and the cereal smell that emanated from her. The music she played still accompanied my thoughts, perhaps even formed their cadence, and determined the path my mind took as it followed the cracking plaster of my room.
"And once, after I had hastily joked with the owner that his customers must be mice, they came and went so secretly, and I was back downstairs with my off, a faint glow from a streetlamp illuminating and enhancing through my 2" window just below the ceiling, as if in sunrise, a particular pathway, I followed it further than I ever had before, and even got up from the carpet to peer into the corner where I hadn't noticed the pattern moving before. The light didn't reach this corner, as I moved closer, crouching near the wall, moving my finger along the rough plaster like a cartographer outlining the edge of a particularly difficult mountain range, I saw a small pinhole of light, which I never would have seen with my own light on, drowning out its much weaker glow. I tried to peer through it, but it was too small, though I felt that behind it must be some important revelation for me, since it had come on such an auspicious night after my foolish joke with the owner, and when I felt so strongly that I was guided in my thoughts by the ephemeral music of Jane's piano. I scratched at it with my nail, bitten down to the quick, but there was no getting more plaster loose.
"I determined to master the hole. I suddenly had a singular purpose, which was tied into both the pinhole of light, the mysterious patterns on the wall, the ghostly world that existed, or perhaps did not exist, upstairs, and Jane's piano. It put into me a drive that two years of Ferlinghetti and Ginsberg had not; which wandering the Haight had not; which experimenting, on my own in the large triangular addition to our old house, with psilocybin did not. I was for once inspired, desired answers, remedies, was even ready to accept super-conscious conclusions to ordinary mysteries. I spent the night awake with myself, trying with all my conscious power not to go to the pinhole, not to scratch, for I knew that scratching in that way would make the whole beyond visible to me, but also me visible to it, and I wanted the upper hand in this altercation. I wanted to see it in its purest state, unadulterated by my own observation, by its knowledge that it was being observed. I felt that if I impacted it, it would immediately lose significance for not being bereft of my own influence. It would then, I feared most of all, become a figment of my imagination - not the thing itself, but the essential knowledge that it would pass to me unwittingly - only, in fact, unwittingly, for it could not be drawn like blood; it could only be taken in the way plants take in sunlight.
"I resolved the next day to take the first steps. I bought a piece of white paper and affixed it in front of the hole. I figured if I kept my side always darker than theirs, they would not notice the hole had enlarged, since the light would bounce off the white paper and blend in with the surrounding wall. The main uncertainty was that I was not sure that their wall was white, but it seemed only natural considering the circumstances. The other main uncertainty was my own. I knew that if I acted with even a sliver of doubt, if some fear crept into me during my work, it would ruin the entire operation; not only would I be forced to capitulate, but I would likely be punished too. I practiced confidence during the days, sitting cross-legged on the carpet and repeating things like, "I deserve to know," and "I am ready," and "if not I, then who?" And when night came I removed the plaster particle by particle, prying loose pieces away with a needle. I was sure the scratching of a finger nail or even a file would cause suspicion. There must be no friction, no chance of interruption, only the slow removal of the barrier. This went on for days and then weeks, and I had made almost no progress, my own horrible penchant for sleep at exactly the wrong moments often keeping me from my own productiveness. Often as soon as I began I would fall back with tiredness and need to rest, sitting with my head against the paper until I could muster the extensive energy required to lift my obviously enormous hands and with the needle, as awkwardly as a city boy might work a plow, pluck away a single mote of white dust, at which point I again would be overcome with exhaustion. During these two months I attempted normalcy with the shop owner, even trying in vain to find out if he had any children, had ever been married, even whether he had a brother or a sister. I must have come off as pleading, and eventually completely desperate, for he totally dismissed me and went on dusting, or sitting on a high stool behind the counter and counting Chinese figures, which I figured must certainly be inventory, for there were no sales I could see to record. He used a small wooden pencil from the Happy OK Lounge, which at the time was across the street, making so many hatch marks that I thought it was possible he was mad, and simply acted out the position of the shop owner, except it occurred to me, even as naive as I was, that that couldn't be the case, as someone was paying the electric bills for my single light bulb and the sewage charges for the toilet. And further, someone was exchanging the packets tied up like cannoli from an Italian bakery.
"Despite my unbelievable weariness, and the total lack of deep sleep I got, sitting in a half stupor by the pinhole, I was always fully awake and full of ideas and enthusiasms during the day, when none of them could go to any use. I fantasized about becoming friends with the shop owner so that I might glimpse his apartment and see if I was right about the wall hangings, but whenever I saw him, shuffling with the rag duster or standing in a heavy-lidded trance making marks in his ledger, the reality of the situation never seemed favorable to my inquiries. I was too afraid of finding out what would happen if I was rejected, because somewhere I understood that what kept me going through the night was the possibility that there might in fact be something worth knowing beyond the wall. If I was denied outright, in the light of day, it would mar the possibility of their ever being a pristine apartment of the shop keepers that I wouldn't suspect to be altered specifically for my own benefit. And if I was, in fact, granted access, though I had a hard time seeing beyond the initial excitement of the possibility, it is most likely that I would be disappointed, because if I was allowed upstairs, than clearly everything was already prepared for my arrival. The only way was to do it in secret.
"This need for secrecy is what kept me from stealing a packet, carefully unwrapping it, and returning it the next day. The chances of my caught were immense, because I considered the shop owner incredible shrewd, despite his apparent disinterest. There was never a day when, to the untrained eye, the shop did not look like perhaps just yesterday it had received a fresh shipment from the boats, the newest and most stylish teapots and multicolored bamboo place mats, even though I knew they were the same ones that had been there at least since I moved in, and who knows for how long before. So I was sure that if I made some calculation error, if some small piece of string got torn, or the package was replaced incorrectly on the shelf (for it would have been easy, considering most of the packages looked similar, even if there were small, barely perceivable differences), I would be found out. And what if, in the time when the package was away with me, that particular package was supposed to be removed by whatever people took away and replaced the packages whenever I was not upstairs? Then surely I would be caught, and any semblance of relationship I might have with the transporters of the packets, and with their owners, and even with their creators, would be immediately forfeited for eternity.
At the end of two months I had managed to widen the hole to where perhaps a dried piece of spaghetti might fit through. I had become so thrilled with my progress, that it had become the sole purpose of my nights, and not, as I had originally planned for, the finding out what was on the other side. But after an annoying day in which I had been particularly humiliated by the owner after what amounted to an altercation, during which I again inquired about any wife he might have or had have, and he effectively suggested that I had some abnormal interest in not only his personal life, but the women in his life, and even, I thought later, went so far as to suggest that I might have some romantic or more likely lewd intentions, I went down to my room in a huff for the night, and was not able in the least to make any progress, my hands were shaking with frustration and embarrassment, and the pin kept slipping out and falling to the ground, after which I would have to spend what seemed like an eternity searching for it in the dark, and fearing that it had dropped through to the other side, though I knew that to be very unlikely. It was when I was lying on the floor with my nose to the cement, eying methodically the painfully uniform concrete, that the ray of light that shined through the hole and onto the floor in my room came into view. I jumped up immediately and, without even considering the consequences (that's how full of adrenaline and unfettered joy I must have been) pushed my good eye up against hole.
What I saw may not have surprised someone else in my place, and in fact it is possible that it would not have surprised even me, except that my expectations had so fully gone beyond the human imagination, that anything would have surprised me - an old man sleeping in a bed, for instance, being tended to by his daughter, his wife leaning against the door frame, half in and half out of the room, with an air almost of unknowing. Or perhaps the light came from a car, being driven down a narrow country highway by man, a man who has just seen something he is sorry to have seen, and is now rushing away from it, endlessly away and yet moving nowhere, stuck for eternity in the space beyond the wall.
But I saw neither of those things. Either one may have come an inch closer to what I expected than what I did see. There were at first two men. The first, rotund and comical, wearing the green visor of the accounting trade, and with small rectangular glasses and a denim apron. He was, at the moment I looked in, which was about 11:15 at night I guessed from the recent ringing of the church bell, oiling some gears that connected to a large belt-run wheel. The small end of the leather belt was connected to a small wheel affixed to a motor. The large end wrapped around a huge metal wheel, probably 6 feet in diameter, which protruded from the side of an antiquated yet industrial looking machine, which appeared similar to the Heidelberg windmill letterpresses that I had seen illustrated in various books in my parents' home, only it was much larger. The second man was feeding slabs of metal, about half a yard in length, 3 inches in width, and perhaps 1/4 of an inch in width, into the mouth of a second machine, which seemed to be pulling the bars between to heavy rollers, and ejecting them out the other end in thin, almost bendable, sheets. This second man was gaunt, fragile even, wearing what looked like a train-conductors cap, and had red hair and red sideburns, and large, expressive hands also covered in a fine, wiry red or blond hair.
As I watched, the first man bent over and flipped on the motor. The roar was suddenly obvious to me as the gears began slowly to turn, and metal arms and legs began protruding at first tentatively, and then with quickening speed, as if two or three men were attempting to run in place inside the mechanism. How I had never noticed the noise before was a wonder even to me, who had managed to reason with so many inconceivable mysteries. Even when I backed away for a moment from the peephole, to make sure that I was still in my room, with the cold comfort of my rug where for so many hours I lay following the spiderweb cracks in the wall, which now seemed completely devoid of meaning or pattern, devoid of trajectory and outcome, devoid of the yearning and the passion which had driven me to this very spot in the corner, and driven me through countless sleepless nights spent working, working to open the hole from which now I greedily drank, either like a newborn lamb at its mother tit, or like a vampire who relishes the hard won blood of his succulent victim.
"When I got my focus back, and my other, worse eye adjusted to the light, I saw a new thing. Behind the large press was a third man, sitting with his back turned to me. I am not sure whether he was there all along, or whether I only saw him for the first time then. Either is possible, and both are likely. It even seemed to me at the time that both were concurrently possible; that I might have only just seen him for the first time although he had been there previously, and that he had only just entered. It seemed that, in the space beyond, these two seemingly mutually exclusive possibilities might in fact simultaneously exist.
"This man, who wore a narrow vertical blue striped shirt, appeared to be working on some small thing; his head was bent and his arms, which were held in front of him on the table where I could not see them, moved a little as did his shoulders. In front of him was a sort of scaffolding, made of steel or aluminum tubing, which rose from the table about 5 feet, and onto which were secured various glass objects: funnels, columns, connectors, beakers, joints, swan necks, and many other things I can not name. They were all connected by clear plastic tubing, through which ran drops of various colors of liquid, mostly shades of red or clear. A wire, resembling a clothes line, or more precisely a photo-mounting line, like you might see in a black room, was strung from the left end of the scaffolding to a hook secured in the left wall. From it hung sheets, secured with clothes pins, perforated like stamps, each stamp bearing the image of a woman, clad in toga, riding side-saddle on a cow, holding in one hand what looked like the scales of justice, and in the other a large mug, full, one might think, of milk.
"As the large press came into its own, reaching a high velocity, the elbows whirring so that they were almost indistinguishable and seemed to form a sort of dizzying haze, the first man, with the vizor, began to feed the thin metal plates which had come out of the second man's machine into a port between the whirring arms. Immediately I recognized the sound of coinage, the classic, desirable, instantly inciting sound which every person dreams to hear more of, and yet rarely gets the pleasure of experiencing in its most deafening, and disastrous, state. Coins, roughly the size of quarters but clearly blank on both sides, began spilling from a tongue on one end of the mechanism into a large canvas sack, which started, in a matter of minutes, to bulge with its bounty.
"When the stockpile of plates was diminished, and the sack, which could easily have fit me inside it, was nearly full, and the alluring sound of clinking had ceased, the vizored man turned off the engine, and the two men, not including the chemist who now stood, still facing away from me, adjusting some small tubing on his scaffold, pulled chairs up to a desk that sat against the left side of the room. On the desk were two levered hand machines, and each man sat at one. The thinner man filled a bowl full of blank blanks and placed it on the desk to his left. He took out a blank, placed it in the hand machine, and pulled down the lever, exerting serious force which caused him to nearly stand. Every ten pieces - I counted exactly - he would pass a blank to the other man, who would stamp them in his own machine, and place them in stacks of 5 on a tray by his side. When 5 stacks were complete, he would bring the stacks over to the chemist, who was taking individual coins off of the stack, doing something I could not see, and placing the coin on a sheet of paper to his right. After about an hour or so, he had made a cube of coins, about 6" x 6" x 6". He called over the fatter man, who folded the paper around the stacks, tied them with string, and stacked them on a tray by the door. I recognized the packets from upstairs, only these new ones were mint green, whereas I had only ever seen yellow, white, and red packets in the shop.
"That was about all I could take, my eye was burning, and I had wild speculations to deal with. I considered why I had decided to see through the hole - what had I thought I'd wanted to see? Or rather, what did I think was possible to see? It was only three men working, working in the dead of night, true, but many surely greater men have worked under such conditions. There were many ways to approach this reality, the most pressing of which relied on judging it against my expectation. But this is where my mind faltered, perhaps because of fatigue, perhaps because I was not the great thinker I hoped to be, and not the one ready to receive this information and process it for the benefit of myself, even, never mind others. I could not, for the life of me, remember my expectations. What exactly had I wanted to find, that is, what specific image, what scene had been formed ahead of time, that left me now with this painful lump in my throat? Sure, there was the man driving the car, and the old man dying, but those were just tropes from a life full of wondering about others" suffering, wondering why I was born into a world where still I had not received an invitation to my first funeral, no close friend had taken his life, even my grandparents, all four of them, still lived and were still married. That easily explained away my most recent premonitions, and in the light of the truth, I even suspected that at the time I conceived them I knew them to be fantasies produced not by true intuition, but by a more guarded form of fantasy.
"What I had expected was perhaps only a feeling, something akin to orgasm, but conceivable, something one could meditate on without feeling overwhelmed; something that left seeking intact, but at the same time fulfilled the desire to seek, like a fountain constantly pumping water into its own reservoir. But even that was a static image, something one could capture the essence of in a photograph or a paragraph. I expected something far beyond this, and at the same time humble, something I could nod my head at and say Yes, that is exactly right, exactly as it has always been, as I always knew it to be. Something I could patronize, and at the same time was a mother to me. Something, in a word, impossible.
"So I now had to grapple with what I did see, which, sad as it is to admit, could be considered a disappointment. It was men, three men, sort of imperfect and odd men, performing tasks, odd, it's true, and at an odd time of day, but perfectly ordinary. Painfully, longingly ordinary. The only way to manage the loss I felt, lying in what I now saw was clearly a cot, was to find more, to become, if I could, one of those men, so that at least I would understand why they did what they did, and so that I could fulfill the disappointed yearning of some future me."
At this point, Poppa took a break, and it was totally worth it. His brow was sweating, he was, I could tell, reliving the experience fully. Which was a new thing, relatively, for me to see. His age was catching up to him. He had been a person of few words, if I can use the phrase lightly. You might even say he was a man of one or two words, like "shut" and "up." But it was now fairly obvious to me that he was not a man of few thoughts, clearly he thought more than shut and up, and when we read the paper, which he did every morning, and come to think of, he did it pretty much every night, too, maybe it wasn't so much an escape as I had always thought. Maybe he was looking for something in there, some hint that this reality that he once knew was not just a dream - some name, an obituary, or a small news article on an arrest, that would confirm for him what were clearly troubling if not nearly psychedelic times.
I was sort of curious whether this was one of things that happens when people get old, as in, was this the breaking down of some previously strong bond, and if so, could this be considered a reliable story? Almost like the way you can break down a cut of pork if you boil it long enough, and you end up with really very little of the structure remaining, but you have a delicious bowl of soup and that's pretty nourishing and is everything you had hoped for, but in the process of its creation the integrity of the original form has been destroyed.
But to tell you the truth, I was still pretty curious about how this all tied into the disappearance of Mima's Second Hand store. The only thing I could see to link them was probably a figment of my imagination, one of those leaps we make because we've got nothing to go on, although it did occasionally seem to work for people like Sherlock Holmes, but then again Sherlock Holmes was a fictional character and probably Arthur Conan Doyle did not have to make that same leap, since I imagine he knew what was going to happen from the beginning, or at least from the middle. That is, that both these stories involved stores that sold really nothing to speak of, and that things mysteriously came and went. Although for my own part, there were definitely no quarters being hid in those weird onesies, because, well, there weren't, and second, I did all the ironing myself and there was no clinking then, and third, I packed up all the things into boxes, and there weren't any quarters sewn into the hem or anything then. It's possible I was looking at the situation wrong, and that that was, as I suspected, a possibly fictitious and ultimately superstitious analogy.
While Poppa was resting, because he laid down right then on the couch, I decided then would be a great time to go for a walk. That's not really a thing I did regularly, but I figured that this was a thing people did in times like this, that is, when things seem to be being turned upside down in your world, and simultaneously, things seemed to be being turned upside down in the sort of world at large. I began to think about the places where those things overlapped, as in, where was it that the larger wheels of history bumped up against our small gears, churning mud in some corner of a hay field. And do the big wheels come at a glance, and knock us out of our mire, or do they bury us deeper, or do they simply reveal to us the reality that we are stuck in the mud in the corner of a hayfield? Despite Poppa's mystery, the thing that seemed pressing to me was the Arm's older brother, as in, first, why did I not know about him before hand, and second, how was it that him being promoted, really, (despite what Steve thought) to a special ops force had any little thing to do with me, who was a sort of train wreck of a human child stuck in a human child's body?
And meanwhile, there was the thing where I was out of job, which meant that there was a chance I would be shunned by Poppa and even by Carla, who had become a bit of grump, or a recluse, since Momma's death. Beyond the almost definite shame was the excuse that I needed to be out of the house, which, despite Momma's body being gone finally, still had the acrid smell of decay in it, which was perhaps why Carla stayed in all day, and why I tried to be out as much as possible.
So I'm walking down the street in the hunt for a job, which is generally speaking as likely as seeing a stag beetle walking down the street, but even that does in fact happen, and as it is, I walk by this laundromat which I've definitely walked by lets say 200 times in my life, but now I notice that not only are the lights on, well at least some of the lights are on, presumably the ones that work, but also there's this sort of hearse-looking station wagon parked in the driveway, and it's maroon, which is a funny color for a hearse though in some ways more appropriate when you consider the general association between death and blood. Black for a hearse, after all, is not only predictable and therefore impersonal, but sort of reminds us of the misery of the situation. Why, for example, are hearses not yellow, which is a color I associate first of all with mustard, but then second with a childish sensation of yes definitely. Even mustard is a preferable area of thought to death, and possibly a pleasant diversion for those in mourning. But such is not the way of our morbid society.
Well I figure that, as long as the hearse doesn't belong to an actual hearse-driver, but rather to some people who possibly own this laundromat, there's some chance they'll need an employee to do the things that employees who work at laundromats do, which is probably make sure that kids don't put other kids into the dryers, which frankly I could imagine certain kids I knew doing to a particular kid I know whose name is Cam Wrikes. Another thing I can think of is possibly pulling the lint out of the dryers, which is probably a thing that really fancy laundromats, like the kind they probably have in Beverly Hills where there are butlers and mints and probably even massages while you wait, don't have to deal with what with the power of automation, but which the poorer laundromats like this sort of pretty ghetto one here in Highland Park probably need dealt with. I guess it's my fate to always be working in the domestic arts, though to be honest, I'm a bit worried about the asthma factor involved in lint cleaning. I do remember learning about the kiss of death which mill workers in Lowell, MA suffered on account of sucking up little particles of lint when they threaded the bobbins for the looms. And despite what many people may think, I consider my life to be at least somewhat worthwhile, and secondly I feel like dying in a small repetitive way is far less exciting or predictable than some grand act which is so great as to warrant escape from the world, and that is basically the way I imagined myself going. Not in an Evel Kneivel sort of Snake Canyon failure, but rather in an act of imagination so grand that the only way to go is out. I figure inherently that that must at least be possible. If it were not, that is, if there were not an "out" to go to, and if this world were not by some means escapable from, I do not think I would know how to handle even basic tasks, such as doing my own laundry, never mind deeply complicated tasks, like walking straight up to a laundromat that was abandoned for who knows how many years and essentially knocking on the door, walking right past the guy who seems like a bit of loser, and going straight for the lint on the first available dryer, which seems to me to be a sign of good work ethic, but I see could also be a sign of bold business acumen.
The laundromat is certainly in need of an even larger laundromat that specializes in cleaning normal size laundromats. There are distinct spider webs which I am familiar from the corners of my own house, and they make me feel particularly comfortable. Also available is a slightly humid but stale air for breathing, which I don't have much complain with, and like the spider webs, is actually somewhat pleasant in that it reminds me of a fall day after rain, though I am fully aware it would most likely remind some other person of their grandma's closet, which is perhaps nice in its own way, both being somewhat clean in a way we don't expect.
Well, there is a man in here who is a confused looking man with what was once a Jew fro, and is now sort of clown-like attempt at remaining youthful. And there is also in here a women who is probably the Jew fro's mother, in that she has obviously died thin red hair and is watching an electric kettle boil, or possibly just standing near an electric kettle in the process of boiling with her face pointed basically at it.
(It's easier to destroy yourself than it is to have a happy life. - Shet's dilemma.)
Since I'm fairly certain that this Jew fro will need somebody to clean the lint from his dryers, the very idea of which is a bit exciting to be honest, at least when you put it that way, I just go right ahead, which seems like really the best thing anyone could ask for. I mean, if somebody came into my house and started cleaning the dishes, or in my case, trimming the wax really pretty good considering they've never trimmed wax before, I would not not be pleased with the whole situation. In fact, I might even give them a little something for their time and the obvious effort that they were putting into the thing. But instead, this guy is all,
"Excuse me, what are you doing," which strikes me as possibly a trick question, considering the obviousness of what it is I am actually doing. So I give him this sort of look that is trying to say, is that a trick questions, I think it's pretty obvious what I am actually doing, but I am not so good at looks, not having had much look-practicing time as a child. So for all I know, I'm giving him the I have frankly no freaking clue what the hell I'm doing look, which is actually fairly accurate, especially since at that moment I am yanking at what I think it where the lint comes out, but turns out to be where the soap goes in.
So he's just sort of looking at me, at least I'm pretty sure he is, but I'm searching all over the dryer with my hands, tapping here or there to see where is the place where to lint is supposed to come out, and meanwhile the Jew fro's Ma comes over, and she's carrying this steaming cup of what, when I get a glance, looks an awful lot like steaming red wine even though the smell coming out of it is more like second hand dirt. Well I've got this feeling that she knows what I'm doing, or trying to do, and that intuition is confirmed when she waves away the Jew fro with what are sort of sexy but nevertheless old lady fingers.
So here we are, I think, and I stand from where I'm crouching looking for the lint catcher, and then I realize that she comes up to let's say my nipple, and I am no Andre the Giant, perhaps I'm more of a Muggsy Bogues. Well she grabs my arm and gives this delicate little bite right on the elbow, which is not too hard for her to reach, and that's not too bad considering the circumstances. And what I really appreciate is her first question, which is,
"Where do you come from, anyway?" which is I think a much better question than what are you doing here, which in almost everybody's case is a completely unanswerable question.
I've got two ways of answering this question that I can think of. The first would be to say the address of my house, which in a way I think would crack her up, because what with the elbow biting, I'm pretty sure she's got a good sense of humor.
The second way of responding would be to give a more cryptic account of my upbringing, which is especially complicated at present considering the story I am basically in the middle of hearing from Poppa.
And I just realized there's a third way too, which would be to explain that I used to work at Mima's Second Hand, though then she would most likely ask me what happened, to which I would not have a reply, and in the end, she would win the conversation. Which is not to say that I can't win some other way, but it seems to me that if I were playing a blind game of chess, which I guess you could say I am, that is how I would anticipate it turning out. So I say,
"Most recently I came from the street," to which she gives me a sort of sexy look that involves that remains of her eyebrows going, I think, generally upward and what remains of her lips going, I think generally inward.
"So you're one of those vagabonds?" she says, and I think about that for a moment, because at the current moment in time, I definitely do not have a job, and as for having a home, that also seems to me to be currently up in the air, which I am pretty sure qualifies me as a vagabond. So I say,
"I'm pretty qualified as a vagabond," to which she hands me the steaming cup of red wine which more or less sadly turns out to be made of beets I think, and possibly some sort of urban grass.
Despite the new vagabond thing, I do in fact go back to where I'm living, mainly because I'm pretty curious about the end of Poppa's story, and I'm worried about Carla, who's been in the corner most of the time these days.
"Basically," she say to me, as I sit down next to her facing the wall in the opposite corner from where I used to trim wax, "this hasn't got a damn thing to do with you or Poppa."
"So it's all about you and Momma, is it?" I say, to which she says,
"Is that all you can think about?" to which I say yes.
"Well, you could say it was initiated by Momma, in the sense that it began when she died." She rubs her knees with her hands, like she's polishing apples. I don't say anything, which I find is a good way not to get in other people's way, except on the occasion where it's exactly the not-saying that gets in people's way.
"When Momma died, it actually came as a surprise to me. I'd gotten to used to the way things were - you in your corner, she on her couch, Poppa at the table. These were the places I knew my family to be, and it had hardly occurred to me that there were reasons for each of these things. That Poppa was at the table because he didn't have words; that Momma was on the couch because she didn't have movement; that you were in the corner because you didn't have chutzpa."
"I resent that!" I interjected, though I immediately gave in to her look, which was sad and large, and gave up avoiding what had been true all along.
"These were simply what was - there was no why, no had been, no going to be. So, embarrassed as I am to admit it, there was a moment when I sided with Poppa, that we should leave her there, because that's simply where she was. But I saw much sooner than he that that was not only technically not possible, but also, probably because I am much younger than him, it was easier for me to accept the change. Which meant, of course, that the change must also exist within me, because what else is change but an excuse for the soul to leap from the stream in which it feels so trapped to a new stream, which, though superficially identical to the present one, still has the freshness of being untrod, of being potentially cooler, potentially purer, potentially leading somewhere unexpected. So that at least there is a brief period when we are trying to figure that out, and though the cloak of predictability may come down harder on us when we realized that really it's only one in a never ending line of parallel streams, those precious moments of unknown, of discovery, are the only source of hope." She had stopped rubbing her knees, though her hands were resting on them, and she had her head down and her voice was barely audible, as if she had reversed the polarity of her being, and were talking in toward herself rather than out, toward the world, which for her, included me.
"All of that is to say, that I had been bumped to a new stream, and in it, in the inertia of my initial excitement, I left the house. I did not just go out walking, as one might expect the introverted daughter to do, but instead I went straight to John Smiley's house. Please don't give me that look," she said, "because I do not deserve it. The reality was that circumstance drove me to it - it was where my stream was leading, and not where I was leading it.
"Joanna, John's wife, took me in, and nursed me the way she was nursing her new child. In fact, there were moments when I longed to taste her milk, and she let me come to her, curl up in her lap more like a pill bug than a child, and lay my head on her chest.
"John was happy for a day, or at least he did not seem effected one way or another, but Joanna was now so caught up in her two children, that she had no time for him, no time to carry the weight that comes with a life as hard as his, fighting street-wise everyday to make enough trading dope for lives to feed not only his own biological son, but a daughter of the earth, and what time did he have in his life for a daughter of the earth? That was for the bored, for the disaffected, for the middle-class yuppies who needed healing from the guilt they carried on account of their privilege. It was not for the street prophets, the diamond cutters, those with hopes and dreams far beyond what they might be capable of, even if they were made to believe.
"We ate mostly cup of noodles, but I ate mostly air, because I believed it was all that I deserved. I slept in a windowless room whose only ornaments were a long, low mirrored coffee table, the kind that you'd expect to exist for the sole purpose of forming, on the edge of some Manhattan apartment, the shadow of luxury, but which here was probably the sad leftover of a counter-raid; there was also a mobile, which I presume had been a gift for the baby probably from some good-meaning aunt who hadn't realized ho out of place a balsa-wood mobile would be. But someone had nonetheless unpacked it and it hung like a tumbleweed in the center of the room, an unspun explosion of bone shards.
"I rarely slept, because there was a crying baby, first, and second because I had no interest in seeing what subconscious thing my mind would call up. But the lack of sleep only made the dreams the vivid, a weird phenomenon and the same one that happens when you stand up from watching a movie to go to the bathroom and in the moment of peeling away, you suddenly see the frame of the T.V., the molding on the wall, the nails biting into the floorboards, as if you'd never noticed them before, as if for some, unknown reason, all your nerves have traveled to the outside of your body and are receiving, now uncovered and directly exposed, the world for what it truly is. Only in this case, in the case of sleeping next to the long, filthy glass table and staring up at the cloud of miscellaneous balsa parts, it was the falling asleep that I feared, not the leaving of the dream. It occurred to me that despite the obvious fact that consciousness is not escapable, neither is the state of unconsciousness within the conscious experience. There are blissful moments between the two, but that is all we get - transition, a thing we absolutely cannot hold on to, however hard it is we try.
"Beyond that, there was the baby crying, which awoke in me absolutely no maternal instinct, and which I'm sure I could have slept through had I desired to sleep. I was a bit surprised by my own lack of emotional connection to the baby's voice, which they say has evolved to be the most obnoxious sound to human ears, but I find many sounds more annoying: the voice of the electric conductor when she tells us not to block the doors on the subway; the hum of a fluorescent light whose ----- has gone bad; the clicking of moths trapped in a light; the electric hum of the small motor that runs the windows on the car; the sound of winding a wind-up toy, and then worse, the inevitable sound of it unwinding. But compared with these sounds, the sound of the baby's voice was like nothing really, like water falling steadily, like something constant and therefore not at all worth taking note of. I've heard that frogs can only see things that move, so that flies appear like single cutouts moving against a static, solid color background. I doubt that.
"Jessamyn Ezzie came often, whom I had looked up to in school, and we would go out together, where I would fail to create an interest in her to want my friendship, even really my companionship, and though she would roll her eyes when I suggested anything like that, I had a feeling she only kept me company because she wanted to be on Joanna's good side, and there was a always a trade off when it came to Joanna. Nothing was quite free. Not even her friendship, not even her maternal hugs and the hours of hair stroking and lolling in her big soft chair. I don't doubt the goodness of her heart, but I also know that into her was baked an unceasing shrewdness, of always judging the stakes. Whereas your ordinary woman might see two men and understand which of them is winning, Joanna saw both of them as losing, because they both revealed something that could be exploited.
"What I revealed was pretty much everything, what with coming straight to them and giving myself into their care. Which meant that I had no filibuster, no leverage in the deal making. Which suited me wonderfully, to tell the truth. I had no argument in me, and was happy to have a task.
"What I had to do was first of all dress in a yellow scarf. This was of the utmost importance. (ritualization of the founder). I always assumed it was merely something recognizable, but the seriousness with which they wrapped my neck, tucked the loose ends back into the twist, and stepped back to look at their work, as if examining, perhaps, a toy rocket ready (most likely) to launch, suggested a certain awe they had for the ritual. A certain necessity that if it was not that way, then it was no way at all; and more so, if it was not that way, not only would the day's activities be ruined, but there remained a certain threat that would then, possibly, be released, a sort of mummy's curse that most likely held the key to any success that there was in the business.
"What exactly the business was I don't know. After the yellow scarf, they would bring me a bicycle, with large rough tires and equally egregious handle bars. I would take the bike to the dock, where a trailer was affixed to it, and I would drive strait to the laundromat back in this part of town. I swear, the men who worked for Joanna were like pestilence, staring with beady eyes at me as they wrapped the yellow scarf around me neck, not so much like they wanted me, wanted either to earn my love in order, I would imagine, to reap the reward of that sewing, or merely to snatch from the jaws of the shark what the other could not have. No, they eyed me the way an ordinary person might eye a candy bar stuck in the vending machine, one they did not pay for but one they think they can get if they give the machine a little shake. When I returned, the plot went in reverse. I would bring the bike to the dock, where the trailer was unhitched and stored in a small shed. Then I would take the bike back to Joanna's house, where one would take it away. There was always a small squabble about this, though I'm never sure which of the positions was preferred, taking the bike to where ever it was stored, or remaining with me. Whichever of the two remained with me chewed his lip nervously when the other was gone. He had lost the confidence he had when the two were together, though I could still feel that he longed to sink his teeth into me, in somewhat of a spiritual way. When the gone one returned, the remaining one would welcome him back with all kinds of homecoming gestures, and bit of false exasperation at his lateness. This was all done through evocative pantomime, because I never heard them speak, which was either a command from up above for who knows what obscure bureaucratic reason, or merely their own understanding of the difference between them and me. It could also be that the two of them were merely deaf.
"They then folded the scarf the way soldiers fold a flag, the two of them standing facing one another and solemnly performing their duty, after which the scarf was placed in a wooden box, which was slipped into some sort of carrying bag. Then they would leave, and I would not see them until the next time. It was never clear when the next one would be - I would be simply going about my daily rituals when Joanna would step in - she always made it known that this was, after all, her house - and inform me that I should get ready. For what was never in question.
"There were other mysteries that attended my inclusion. In addition to the scarf I had to wear a tattered coat, the putting on of which did not seem to attend so much ritual or reverence as the scarf, and in fact I felt as though I were being forced into some sort of comic outfit, or a kind of stocks, to be displayed thus publicly to the world. What I had done was not exactly clear to me, and why these particular men were my punishers was also a question that I did not have an answer to. I did begin to feel as though this were just payment for my actions, which swirled together with the image of Momma lying on the couch, because even though now she was gone, probably buried somewhere and her body allowed to begin to consume itself, the so far benevolent bacteria taking to their host, what flies and maggots that have access to her body eating the creamy flesh, black putrefaction, decay, fermentation, and eventually, though we are today still far from this, the finally beautiful moment when only dry white bones are left, and again the situation is palatable to the human being, she was still stuck in that supine position in my memory, and as long as she stuck there, I was a person possibly guilty of endless wrong doings. I wished I could see her white bones, but I knew it would be a long period before something like that would be possible, and until then I would have to be satisfied with going out in public wearing the coat, made of heavy cloth, almost canvas, once a likely flamboyant blue, and now a dull, everyman color, with fraying edges. And on top of that, the scarf shone like a beacon not of hope, as the saying goes, but the primary use of the beacon: to warn others to stay clear, for fear of breaking their hulls against the rocky cliffs.
"On one occasion I tried to bring this up with Joanna, who was sitting in her chair nursing. I tried to suppress my need to cuddle up in her lap, though it was nearly impossible. Instead I said,
"Joanna, why do I have to wear the coat? I don't mind the scarf, it seems only right that I should have to wear something to let the men at the laundromat know that I am legitimate, for I do fear them simply not letting me dock and having to return to the pier with my trailer still loaded. But why do I have to wear the coat? It seems to me to be superfluous, as I already have the scarf, and only a way to shame me. Plus it is ragged and makes me look like a vagabond, which is not the case. I wouldn't think you would want me to project an image of homelessness, because people know I am staying here, and they might think you are treating me unfairly." Joanna continued to nurse her infant, I could hear it sucking and gasping for air.
"Clara," she said, "I understand your fear. But even you have to acknowledge that there are things at play beyond what you understand. For example, you don't even know what's in your trailer. I at least know that, though I don't feel bad to admit that there are things even beyond what I can get access to, and even if I could, I'm not sure I'd be able to understand them, how they work, and most of all what kind of genius could have created them.
"The yellow scarf I think you have guessed correctly about, otherwise how are the men to know that you came from us? Though there is also the fact that without it, it would be easy for you to simply perform the action, without being aware of its greater significance. Likewise it's valuable for us, because we can trust you to return. You would never want to be seen with the yellow scarf doing anything except the activities prescribed for you, I don't think you could bear it. So I know you will return."
"In that you are right," I conceded, "and further, though you have failed to acknowledge this, probably because you felt it so obvious, I cannot simply throw the yellow scarf away. I can't simply go home now, after having left so recently, I wouldn't yet be welcome, or worse, even acknowledged. And clearly I would not be allowed here again without it, so I am caught. But I don't fully understand why the scarf cannot be both a signifier of identity and an acknowledgment of ignorance?"
"Well that is obvious," said Joanna, who had switched her infant to her other breast. The one breast was still exposed, and it was still shiny with saliva and warm milk. "The scarf will be so that you can be recognized by others, without it they would reject you at the laundromat, as you have clearly deduced. The coat is so that you cannot recognize yourself, if you were to by chance see yourself in the mirror. Because if you fully saw yourself, you would immediately leave my house and not return, even you can admit that, and I don't fear telling it to you because as you have said, you have nowhere else to go."
"With that she pulled a shawl around her body, hiding her breasts and the baby as well, which was a real blow to my ego, since I had the whole time imagined that after this was over, we would be able to reconcile and I would be able to curl up in my normal position as a pill bug in her lap."
Well this is the first time that I see Carla even getting close to having tears, and to be honest, I'm not so good with the tear relieving situation. For one, I don't think I've cried since the time in school when I had tried to trade raisins for a Reeses cup, which to be honest seemed like a remarkable trade to me, because I am a man who loves raisins, and I was a child who loved raisins too. But in fact, that is now how the other side, whose name was Thomas Shelton, saw it, because he thought I was being some kind of arrogant jerk, which really threw me off guard. And in fact I didn't cry then, but I did cry later when I considered the real reason why I had always loved raisins, which was that Momma bought them in bulk from the local coop and repacked them into neat little sandwich bags for little Cam to eat at lunch. And the fact that Thomas had insulted the integrity of the raisins, and that that reached deeper when I thought of my poor Momma packing the raisins that Thomas so easily dismissed, was what caused me to cry, walking home from school in a big yellow puffy jacket on which none of the velcro was working any more, it was so gummed up with dust or random strings. That evening, there were Momma and Poppa, these were the days before the wax, before the couch, when even Carla was willing to participate in some small way in our family community. And Poppa was so carefully cutting brisket, which was his favorite meal, and Momma was setting the table with gilt-edged china, each piece of which had a biological illustration of a different flower, and Carla was reading some word problem from math class to Poppa, as he sampled the brisket.
I was imagining what Thomas' family was doing tonight, most likely eating takeout from Thai Fantasy and watching T.V., but actually I had no idea because really maybe they were eating some sort of casserole, probably a canned-tuna thing, with frozen peas and coated, like thatching, with yellow cheese. Probably they prayed before meals, holding hands at their overly-large table, Thomas and his two younger sisters leading the prayer, singing together, their voices causing the twin candles to flicker on the table.
Or were they waiting too long for Thomas Sr., who was, at least presumably, at work until late? Did they set the table and lay the bread out and dish potatoes onto every plate, and cover them, the pork chops getting dry in the low-heat of the oven, the dining room darkening on the unlit candles until suddenly it was too bright, Mrs. Shelton flipping on the overhead lights, exposing beneath their fluorescent glow the dried flowers and seasonal pine cones ranging over an orange and green plaid table cloth?
Or perhaps there was simply cereal, bananas and 1% milk out on the table, with a note for the children to help themselves, and Thomas, please put the milk away when you and your sisters are done, we're out for the evening with the Jasons, we'll be back late most likely, Thomas, put Mina and Theresa to bed, and don't forget to make them say their prayers, and you too say your prayers, like I said we'll be out late, turn out the lights when you go to sleep but leave on the outside light for us, we'll definitely need it to see. There's ice cream in the freezer you can have some. Don't call unless it's an emergency, in which case, feel free to call, we'll get back to you if it seems important, I promise!
Now that I'm thinking about it, I can't tell what it was exactly made me cry. I didn't feel so bad for Thomas either way, guy was a bully and for the guy who's getting bullied, AKA me, it's really pretty hard to empathize. But I didn't feel so bad for my family either, who in fact were having a totally pleasant dinner experience, though without candles, never with candles, never with cereal that's for sure, and never with notes about Hi we've gone out for the evening take care of yourself. I think it was this, that I knew from then on, I would never be able to think of raisins in the same way again. Nor in fact cereal, nor candles, not potatoes, nor notes from parents, nor overhead lights, nor Thomas Shelton.
Like I was saying, I am not so good at the tears situation, and this one in particular, so I give her what I think is a comforting pat on the shoulder, though in truth it could possibly be read as condescending, like it's OK, girls do cry, but actually I think it was mainly just the awkwardness of touching my own sister.
At this point, Poppa is lying on the couch, which at first was a bit shocking since no one ever lay on the couch except Momma, but then I see he's just resting. He's got his eyes closed, but I can tell that he is not in fact sleeping, nor is even taking a power nap, but he's just resting. So in the meantime, I sit in my corner and trim the very last of the candles into shape, which gives me a brief, though necessary sense of belonging, and I wonder what Thomas Shelton is up to right now, though I imagine it's something absolutely ordinary like putting on deodorant or scratching his head.
Eventually Poppa's eyes are open, though otherwise he doesn't seem to have moved. He's getting a bit of a larger beard these days, though his hair still seems well cut. His beard, I realize, is completely white, which I am sure has been the case for some time, though I never really noticed the completeness of its whiteness. He is wearing shoes.
I go over to him and sit down on the floor beside the couch, so that our heads are at the same level. I'm hoping that this does not require much work from me, but that I can sit on the floor comfortably and listen, rest  on the tenor of his voice, perhaps even slip into a dreamlike state where I seem to be simultaneously creating and listening to the story, as if I knew what was going to happen not before, but actually at the exact same time as it is being created. That is the best place to be, because I get all the feeling of being in control of destiny, and at the same time, am just sitting on the floor and as childish as a pea in a pea pod.
"Do I look like you imagine those men to look?" says Poppa, without moving the slightest muscle of his body except, of course, his mouth. "Nobody could say that I do. I have instead all the signs of the dreamer who's been asleep slightly too long: sunken eyes with puffs of purple flesh beneath, caterpillar eyebrows, even this beard, which some might consider poetic, is merely the outcome of having no reason to shave, no principals on which to stake my fashion. Those men did, they wore certain clothes with a purpose, at least there was a foolhardy nonchalance with which the skinnier man wore a suit, or sometimes a turtleneck shirt and black pants. It was as if, and this is why it was so attractive, they believed that in whatever system it was they were creating, these things distinguished themselves as the creators, and not those being created.
"The next few days were, however, exhilarating. I frequently left the shop and reentered, hoping that the green packets would appear in the store. I did various errands, which usually involved trading an hour or two of work at a local grocer, unpacking boxes of long brown roots, or stacking vacuum sealed sacks of red or yellow grains, some ovoid, some circular, onto mostly empty white shelves. In exchange I would get some potatoes, usually old and slightly green, a few onions, which I ate raw on the spot, and, after having my work scrutinized by the fat, black-haired woman who ran the shop, sometimes I would get a bundle of long greens, which tasted too bitter to eat uncooked, but which I had no choice but to consume as a rabbit would. This woman wore her hair pulled back tightly against her head, which was very round except for on top, where it made a mesa that might have been good for balancing small flat objects, though I never saw her do it. She wore loose silky looking button-up shirts with large floral patterns either in pink or teal or yellow, and tight leggings that seem to enjoy squeezing and folding her fat and which always matched the color of the flowers on her shirt. She had a very tiny husband who sat behind the coffee bar and put quarters into sleeves, or ate sunflower seeds and watched a small silent T.V., carefully removing the shells with his nimble fingers and placing them on a piece of butcher's paper, which afterward he would fold up and add to a stack he kept behind the bar.
"They had a son who was only 5 or 6, but who loved to play with the hem on my pants as I worked, pulling at it, or smacking my calves with his little fists. I tried complaining once to his mother, but he ran up and put his little arms around one of her legs, his hands not quite touching in the back, saying "Mama mama, it's a bad man he tried to kick me," and she lifted him up and held him under one arm like you might a sack of flour and patted his head with stiff fingers, the way you might a slightly disturbing hairless cat that is your friends and you are expected to lovingly caress. All the while she eyed me up and down, as if I were a prime steer she was thinking of purchasing for meat for the entire winter, and so I simply went away and continued pulling the long brown roots out of waxy cardboard boxes and putting them on these angled shelves covered in a sparse layer of very plasticy fake grass, that would shed onto my clothes and which I would find much later, as I pulled off my pants to sleep, in the folds of the denim.
"They also had a daughter, who was neither fat nor thin, had a wide nose and small hands. She was not always in the grocery shop, the way the son was, but she seemed to be able to come and go as she pleased, and had a certain air of maturity in her independence which I admired. She wore what you could call a sundress, with wide shoulder straps and frills around the armholes. It was made of the same cloth as her mother's shirts, and came in the same three patterns, which she seemed to alternate. She kept them clean, although I could tell they had seen many wearings. They showed almost no form as the cloth was fairly thick and cut in symmetrical and only gently curving esses, and they went down all the way to the ground, so that they dragged and she had to lift the bottoms on occasion so as not to trip.
"We had had very little interaction in general, though she would occasionally give me small slices of an apple she was eating, or let me take a bite from these rather bland sweets that she would bring in from the street. They tasted like wet cardboard, but had the textural illusion of pastry, and for that I was grateful.
"On my first day back to the grocery after I had looked through the hole, I was encouraged by an entire sort of empty empanada that she took out of her white paper bag for me. It was admittedly a runt, perhaps made of leftover dough, and I noted that with some dismay, because I was not entirely blind to the unfairness of my situation. But it was the first time I had received anything complete from her, and that, coupled with that kind of germinating, though not yet fully sprouted, confidence which comes with having important, though certainly unrealized, secrets floating about your mind, I asked her if she preferred one variety of pastry to any other. She said she did not, that they were all equally bland to her. I said then how come you are continually eating them, continually bringing them here for you and your family? which question spawned a story about how she had been engaged to the baker's son, and she, having broken it off out of disgust, because frankly the baker's son was a mercurial person who had got involved with people whose means of making a living she found horrific, had still felt some obligation to the baker, to whom she had delivered a double blow, because he lost both his prospective, and only, daughter, and also his current, and only, son. She visited him daily, because she had always enjoyed his company and they were still able to talk about things which went beyond the weather. Sadly, she said, although her face did not betray any discernible emotions, his pastries had become worse since she had delivered him the news, that in fact they actually used to be quite good, and people would even come from different parts of town specifically to eat his empanadas. But his flours had become stale, and when less and less people showed up at his shop door every day, hoping to get one of the freshest pastries, straight from either the oven or the fryer depending on how they liked it, he no longer had the working capital to afford the jams, berries, cheeses, tomatoes, meats, and all other sorts of things that used to be baked into the heart of the pastries. She said that he continued to make the pastries more out of habit than out of any real desire to please his customers, of which she was now the only one, except for a very old lady who only wanted to eat a bite or two of raw dough, since she no longer had teeth to bite through the thick crusts.
"So you can see it's really an obligation more than anything," she said. "I don't feel any real attachment to the family, and I definitely have no desire to see Grover again. You think I would choose to spend my allowance on this inedible cardboard?" and saying so she poured the remaining empanadas and some crumbs out onto the floor. "I would rather have some lotion for these cracked hands, some book to spend my time reading, a nice leather belt to give this dress some shape, gold or silver bracelets to accentuate my otherwise bare arms, a new pair of shoes," she said, lifting her dress and letting me see the black scuffed and torn flats she had on. "But why am I even saying this to you, you don't have any money, that's clear, you can't get me what I want, and so I'll just be stuck with my old, stale obligations until I turn into mother and perish in an aisle of this god-forsaken place." She kicked the empanadas across the floor, and they lodged under a dusty, empty shelving unit in the back of the store, which seems like it had once held various sliced meats and deli cheeses, but in which now there was only more of the same ubiquitous false grass. I made a not to see if I could not get the empanadas at the end of the day, as long as the parents were behind the coffee bar and the son was not around to rat me out.
"I also made a note that, if I ran into anybody named John-Philip, I should pay close attention and, when I saw what kind of physique he might have, decide what to do then. I felt certainly ready to take on the punk son of a baker, and even if I lost, I was prepared for that as well. When it came to the belt, or the shoes, of the gold or silver bracelets, I was certain that it couldn't be too difficult, I had grown up with all of these things easily available to me, and I now even knew what was beyond the wall.
"I determined that, when I got back to the shop this time, I would address the old shop-keeper, and see what he knew. There was no way he was ignorant of what was happening, and it couldn't be a mere coincidence that the packets which they were making in the room next to mine were nearly identical, though not quite, to the ones I had so far seen in the shop.
"I received no greens that day, though I did manage to sweep one empanada out from the under the display case with the edge of one of the waxy cardboard boxes which the brown roots were packed in. When I got back to the shop it was later than usual, probably because I had spent the extra time on finding the pastry, and perhaps my conversation with the grocer's daughter had slowed down my progress as well. The shop keeper was gone for the day, and I took a quick inventory of the packets to see if any green ones had showed up, but they were still the same white, yellow and red. I went down to my room and directly to the hole, for it had been now 3 days since anyone had been in the room working, and I was starting to get an easy confidence, perhaps becoming slightly overly confident, that I was fully prepared for what would be there when the men returned. The long drawn out anticipation had dampened the experience for me from when I first saw through, rather than heightening it. It gone on a bit too long, and I even feared I was beginning to get bored, like you might after too long at a strip club, so that when it's over, you have no interest in masturbation any longer.
"When I put my eye to the wall, the men were, in fact back, a bit of the exuberance which had hit me the first time surged through my veins: my heartbeat increased, and I felt flush and excited in the pit of my stomach. It was the closest I think I ever got to love. But the feeling faded somewhat quickly, and I was glad for that, for then I could get my head around action, which had totally eluded me the previous time, I was so overcome with emotion.
"At first I tried the obvious, knocking on the wall, shouting through the hole, but they never looked in my direction, it was as if there was a single directional membrane, things passing only out to me, but never in. I definitely believed that there were ways to pass through, though I also understood the reason why it was so difficult, namely that there was no reason, from there perspective, that I should enter. They seemed to have a complete system which desired no intrusion, into which was built no means for expansion, and so there were no places which, when the sinews of the system were stretched, opened up to create a space into which I might comfortably slip, even help to keep the system functioning, never mind be merely allowed to snuggle.
"But I also understood that without breaking the seemingly impossible difference between us, I would never be able to look the grocer's daughter in the eye, knowing, as I'm sure she must have, that I had got on my hands and knees to sweep beneath the defunct deli cooler in order to eat a pastry made by her ex-fiance's decrepit father. It's true that I wasn't entirely sure that they weren't just ignoring me, but if they were, they were excellent at it, for once I realized that they could not, or would not, hear me, I shouted rather exuberantly, which felt like a great joy, and even danced about in my little room, singing some song that came into my head that I knew possibly from the radio, or more likely it was the song that Jane used to play, to which I had improvised words, though they came to me so naturally that I felt as though I remembered them, rather than created them on the spot.
"The next day I returned to the grocer's, only there was no work for me, since the long brown roots that I had unpacked the day before were still there on the shelves, and only a small fraction of the vacuum sealed sacks of beans had been sold. In order to have an excuse to be there, I stood at the coffee bar and ordered a coffee, which the grocer's husband poured for me into a Styrofoam cup, though I could clearly see that there were white ceramic mugs stacked and ready. When I had drunk the coffee, which I did as slowly as I could without making it seem as though I were not, in fact, there for the coffee, I ordered a second, which the grocer's husband poured into the same cup, although he only filled it halfway this time.
"I let this sit in my cup for a while, swishing the brown liquid about. I finally had to drink it, because I didn't want to offend my hosts, who I felt were being very kind by letting me sit here for so long. I tentatively began to push the cup forward a third time, smiling wearily as if to say, Well, might as well have a bit more if I've got to survive the day, days are hard, are they not? The grocer's husband looked at the cup and frowned, his chin puckering up like a shriveled balloon. He patted his hands on the counter top, humming a low, almost imperceptible note, as if weighing a situation of immense gravity, which seemed a bit over the top considering.
"Look," he said to me, his hands now still on the counter, "I know why you've been here all day, that is, I know what you want."
"Oh you do, do you?" I said, with a boldness that surprised even me.
"You want to marry Angie," he said, and the way he said it, it was no longer a question. I was, in fact, not sure that that was the case, although I had perhaps harbored hopes of getting to know her. But he said in unarguably, as if the discussion had already happened, the point had been made, and it was now only for us to hammer out the details. I began to speak, though really more just to say something to this man who claimed to be my future father-in-law than because I actually had anything to say, but the man, who now seemed very old, with a long thin goatee that ended in a light wooden bead, shut me off with his finger.
"Ah, ah," he said, "no need to protest, I've already made up my mind. You see, last night I actually saw you crouching under the deli counter to retrieve the pastry that Angie had kicked there. You were on your hands and knees and had your head down, so there was no way you would have noticed me, even the sun was set so there were no shadows from the window to betray me. At first I thought how pathetic you were, because you would go to such lengths either for a pastry, or for a woman, and I thought about either surprising you by saying something very loudly or by simply kicking you with my shoe. But I decided that it was better to leave the matter be and have it out over coffee the next day.
"You don't remind me of me when I was a child, but I did know someone who was like you, always groveling on floor in front of teachers, always bringing them sweets so that maybe they would think more favorably of him since he was, after all, a cheat and a slacker. The teachers ate it up, mostly they were women and I think personally that had something to do with it.
"Somehow Jackson finished second in the class, I was third, and another boy named Stewart Lipson was first, but he had a bit of a lisp and a weakness about him that made neither me nor Jackson fear him or feel one upped, since it was really more of a consolation prize and I believe everybody thought that way, even the principal. You could tell when he said his name, he was glad more in his heart for the feelings of the boy than for the honor of awarding him a prize worthy of his talent, which is a good feeling in its own right.
"I wasn't particularly upset with Jackson because I knew how he had cheated his way up there, though I was never sure how deep the extent of his cheating went, as in, whether he met Ms. Raymond after class or maybe in her studio apartment certain late nights before tests. So I considered myself the winner, after all, and that sense of pride I felt, knowing that I accomplished in honesty what nobody else had accomplished except with the pity from the feeding hand, gave me a great boost of ego, which is what prompted me to marry Jun and open the convenient store. Who else could say they were able to accomplish such a thing at such a young age? Marry the daughter of the local school board and general a well-respected person and also open his own convenient store?
"It occurred to me last night, as I was discussing all of this with my wife, especially about what I saw regarding you on the floor, that you really were a Jackson, who, it can easily be said, has disappeared from my life completely, which was never what I intended, though I have always wondered whether, after the competition was over, he felt so sorry for having cheated his away ahead of an honest man, that he could not speak to me again. Either way, I am sorry for how I taunted him about Ms. Raymond, who was not very popular herself, and Ms. Kelly, the gym instructor, who despite wearing tights and a loose tank top, probably specifically for this purpose, never excited in the spirits of any of us any sort of urge, except perhaps Jackson, though I think that was more of a necessary strategic move than spawned from any sort of emotion.
"All of this is to say, that I am glad you will become my son-in-law, because I will have a chance, then, to redeem myself in the eyes of my own judgment, taking under my wing one who I had, so long ago, been so ready to withhold from the secrets of my inner circle."
"At that moment the grocer's daughter walked in followed by a man about her own age, with buzzed hair except where it was long by his forelock, an olive complexion, and a face like stiff wax, which was neither interesting nor did it promise to get interesting even after he found out that we were engaged. They weren't holding hands, but it was clear from the look on his face, and the way he stuck out his chest awkwardly into the space, that they had been. I quickly wrote my name on a receipt that I pulled from a metal skewer where other receipts, fading from white to yellow, were stacked, as if ready to be sliced for kabob meat, and pushed it over to the grocer's husband, who looked at it discretely, pulled a pen from his jacket pocket, and wrote "that's enough," showed it to me, and stuck it with the pen into his pocket.
"Father I'd like you to meet Edgar," said Angie to her father. "He's slated to be the next chief of the district's special investigations team, and I think I'm in love." She looked her father straight in the eye, ignoring both me and her companion. Her father calmly pulled a receipt from the skewer, pulled the pen back out of his pocket, and wrote on it in a very ladylike cursive, with large rounded vowels, "I told her this morning about my intention vis-a-vis you, girls do love to defy their fathers." He slid me the note, which was completely visible even as he was writing it to both me and Angie, and even Edgar had he been looking instead of pretending to browse the mostly empty aisles, picking up a clear plastic bag full of what looked like dried, solid, yellow-tinged scallops, and examining the label, as if he understood the characters, which it was clear by his manner of attempting to sound them out that he did not.
"Do you think, you can marry me?" she said, turning her rhythmic eyes onto me, that pulsed clear and brown, like the gentle beating of some deep sea creature resignedly idling in its tank. "Do you understand what it will be like, when you are working 12 hour days to pay the rent in our small apartment, and I am visiting Mother and Father's shop three times a week both to get out of the house, which will have by then obtained a oppressive quality of stagnation, and also to help stock shelves with brown root, which you will no longer have time for. And what will you do when Mother is diagnosed with breast cancer? Will you continue to provide for our family, our by now one daughter and another child on the way, or will you spend time helping in the grocery shop, or will you stay with her in the hospital while I tend to the shop, and father manages little Liza? Have you even considered these things?" and she is talking so that Edgar, who is now examining, like an antique collector, a long green wrinkled pod, can hear, although he seems not at all interested in Angie, which in a way is a relief to all three of us.
"I looked at the grocer's husband, who was now scratching lotto tickets with a quarter, so he had clearly refused to come to my aid, despite having initiated the discussion.
"Angie," I said, in my most pleading voice, "it's true I haven't thought about those things. How do you even know Mother will get cancer? But even if she did, I have no plan, I have no idea whether I will keep my job or spend time with her or with the kids or with Father or in the shop. These are beyond the scope of my current plan. But I do want you to know, that I have a plan that will make all of those things obsolete, that will put us in a position not only to care easily for our three children, but also to ease the burden here at the shop, perhaps we can even hire someone, perhaps even Edgar, to help with the brown roots and the vacuum sealed sacks, since he seems to have such an interest in these things."
Highland Park, Echo Park, Boyle Heights, Lincoln Heights, Cypress Park, Glassell Park, Hermon, Montecito Heights, Omaha Heights, Baird Park, Monterey Hills.
"So you're saying you just showed up one day and your pop says she'd come by, but wasn't coming by anymore?"
"That's what he said."
"And you're pretty sure she just woke up on the wrong side of the bed and was probably just being a little bitch?"
"I didn't say that exactly."
"No, but that's what you meant. All you kids these days are so soft."
"But that's just what I mean, I'm a pretty nice person, at least I think so."
"You're OK."
"So I'm OK, but I'm not good enough."
"You're good enough."
"OK thanks, Mercury," says Grover.
"Say Grover, I bet you ten to one it's the dad," says Mercury.
"Whaddyou mean it's the dad?" says Grove.
"I mean ten to one, no twenty to one she's got a wet pussy thinking about you, but her old man caught wind that you were working for us, and he said no more of that, no sir, not my precious little princess. I bet you she'd love to come see you at work here, nothing sexier than a man here in the silver mines, if you know what I mean. What about you, Wu, what do you think?" Both of them turn to look at Wu, but Wu just sits there as usual, taking notes on a piece of paper, facing his lab stuff.
"Yah, Wu, you think she still loves me?" says Grover. Wu just says,
"How the fuck should I know?" but definitely does not turn around.
Highland Park, Echo Park, Boyle Heights, Lincoln Heights, Cypress Park, Glassell Park, Hermon, Montecito Heights, Omaha Heights, Baird Park, Monetery Hills.
Mercury and Grover split a tab for the morning. Wen walks upstairs to his shop. Grover decide to go do a bit of finding out about Angie, because either dad's a moron, which he always suspected, or Angie's a two-timing what? Maybe not two-timing, except she couldn't do it herself, had to tell dad to tell Grover.
Grover gets on the gold line, and he thinks the dose is starting to kick in. He thinks about how the future is cyberdelia, but he's not so sure. He understands the basic idea, but there are two oddities:
1) The word is already a marketing tool. Which means that, since cyberdelia hasn't had a chance to catch hold yet, the idea of the thing, as a marketing tool, is already overtaking it as a genuine, pure, experience-able thing.
2) Ultimately uninterested people, like Wen, are far more advanced in the realm of tuning in than anybody will be able to become through the internet.
On the train are two other people. We got a finely dressed white fellow in a hound's tooth button up, leather loafers and no socks, khakis, a black leather belt, and those rimless glasses. He's probably thinking about what he'll eat for dinner. He's maybe wondering about what problems his wife will have at her work when he gets home, and how he's going to help her. He's already developing the conversation. She says she has boss issues, that the man is treating her with less respect than he treats her male colleagues, so he'll sit calmly, remember, calmly, because excitement will not help, Molly doesn't respond well to excitement, she'll think he's enjoying it, and maybe he won't be able to help giving away a little excitement: he'll touch the tips of the fingers on one hand to the tips of the fingers on the other. That will be OK, perhaps she won't notice, she tends to only notice certain things when she's upset about her work, that's not usually one. So he'll do that, he'll sit while she's standing, and he'll tell her how to get out of the situation, that rationality is superior to emotional expression, that she has to meet him on his own terms, or else he will get defensive, as men, especially men with power, tend to do, because he probably has an inferiority complex after all, what with his wife being his boss at home, and the fact that growing up he wasn't much of an athlete, though his own father was the baseball coach, and he only ever got pity-played, even by his old man, got put in the outfield even though he always wanted to be a shortstop, like FAMOUS BASEBALL PLAYER. Isn't that right? That's probably true of Molly's boss, if he's an executive boss. Molly works at a tech company, so he's almost definitely that kind of person, and that's what the man in the khakis will say to her when he gets home tonight, and then if he's lucky, if he can move her toward affection and admiration, perhaps their night will move toward red wine and sultry eye, still full of tears, and he hopes he can win her over that way, because it is a shame to waste this mood he's in, he's feeling so empowered, just because his wife had a hard day at work, which is such an easily solvable problem, if she just had the right solutions. The man in the hound's tooth shirt swipes a page on his kindle. Swipes back, probably forgot to actually read the page. He looks around to see if anyone noticed, and Grover quickly looks away, but as soon as he's looking back at the screen, Grover see's that he doesn't have a wedding ring after all. So no Molly, no wife problems, but definitely a certain smugness. Perhaps Molly is a woman at his work who he is now thinking about, thinking about the funny thing she said today about their boss Moses, she said he was more of an undertaker than an executive, which he thought was doubly clever, what with the executive being the one who executes, and the undertaker being the one who buries the bodies the executive executes. He had said something like that, and Molly had smiled a funny little laugh, that made him feel a bit ashamed, actually, by what he had said, since she hadn't meant it that way at all, as she said, she just meant that he bit into his work with real gravitas, and didn't simply shop its head off and call it done. But she had probably said that because she was feeling a bit guilty about the metaphor, and wished to recant. Molly must be pretty superstitious, Grover thought, to be wondering if perhaps her job, and ultimately her success, was dependent on whether she had metaphorically dissed her boss, who had the power, it was true, to advance her in the company.
Grover chewed at the side of his tongue. This khaki pants man was a bit of a bore. Not helping with the expansion of consciousness. Number two was a short-haired Korean woman, who wore an overlarge white tee shirt, faded light wash bluejeans, and crisscrossing black leather sandals. Her hair was in a bob in front, and tied into a short ponytail in the back. She had the remnants of black paint on her fingernails, and her toenails had dark red paint, that was growing out already. She lived alone, most likely, in Pasadena bungalow, modest, and amazingly crowded. These were the stories of her life - a few favorite tee shirts and a second pair of jeans, more faded, more ripped, on the bedroom floor. A cassette player, and somewhere, a cassette holder with pop music. A number of paper cutouts on the wall, in different colors, which she had done either alone or with Colette, a project began but unfinished, disappointingly, when Colette had met Scott, with his running shoes, agreeable but bland face, and peppy, uncalled for optimism when it came to him and Colette and their future together. She had nearly empty packets of belly flops, all with at least a bean or two left for good luck, eating the last one seemed so final, seemed to finalize the commitment to frivolity that the candy afforded, and that was simply not her. No, she was committed most assuredly to the pursuits of thought, which is perhaps what made her art - photographic collages drawn over with watercolor pencils and the occasional metallic Sharpie - so bland, so attempted, so seeking the edge of the meaning rather than finding itself smack in the rich, yolky center of the multicultural problems she felt she was facing. It was as if she had made no progress in her 6 years since high school graduation, when she had gotten up and sworn at the whole school, told them to go ahead and fuck themselves, see what she cared. That had been blissful, absolutely right, but then the dean had had a chat with her at a lunch table, which had energized her even further, but had basically told her no swearing when people were forced to come which, she said, was exactly the point. What do you want, then, he had asked, and she had said something like This place is just so chosen, so of a type, which, when it came down to it, was all she could conjure up in the face of demand for particulars. And there it all was, there was her life now, there was the way she had remained aloof at the design studio she worked in, longing not to be the one to discuss ideas and come up with happy collaborations, but the one making terrible, in the good sense, art in the corner that awed people. But then deadlines would come and go, people would thank her for her work, good job, and that was all there was, no recognition that she was pioneering change, only the recognition of having completed the task assigned to her again.
There was also her bed with the slightly oily sheets, she remembered that they used to be crisp and white, or so she had thought, perhaps she had only begun to notice it recently. Maybe her memory was failing, and there was the small chance, always possible, that it would turn out that she had had, all along, some slow-growing tumor that had pushed on her brain bit by bit, and had caused, ultimately, the change of perception she had been able to trace back to that moment in high school. Because before then, or before that general time period, she had remembered things like walks in the streets of Concord, full of such vibrantly intense momentum - the dancing of a squirrel along a wire, for instance, or the fumbling hilarity of younger, unknown school children, crossing a crosswalk - that they seemed to speak about a reality that was a so obvious, so blatant, that it was impossible to ignore. Something about what was behind the curtain, something about the ultimately humorous reality of society, something she could hold out against John Harold or John Ethans, boys whose stupidity alone seemed to put them at the top of the dramatic hierarchy of high school life, and John Ethans in particular, whom she had seen walking side by side with Colette around and around the quad at his graduation (he was a year older), strangely, intently, as if neither of them wished the moment to end. But where was that not, not on this train, not in that man with hound's tooth shirt, he's more like the John Harolds of the world, probably leading a relatively happy life, even though the bounds of imagination are likely quite slim. His moments of wonder - what even are they? Doubtful that he sees the trees as she did, as strange nameless grasses under which the bobble-headed lively machines of humanity played out their brief and productive purposes. Perhaps he saw beauty, but did not see why it was beautiful. That was most likely, because it would be rude to assume that vistas did not awe him, that giant sequoias did not make him wonder about at least the smallness of human beings, if not the insignificance of them. And that was what was so paralyzing - that he too saw these things, or felt them at least, and that who was she to deny him the right? That Stacy and Miranda and Kevin at work gossiped and shared bites of junky packaged ramen, when she ate cold hand made soon tofu by her computer because who could stand their gossip, the way their minds remained so blindly within the sphere of their own, enclosed world view. Yet didn't they also explore deeply every nook of this life, every humorous angle to be taken, every strand of hair to be analyzed. Every gesture by some celebrity that made them laugh, material as it was, vain as it was, as calculated and manipulative as it was, and as manipulated as they were for loving it faithfully, perhaps it brought them to the same peak of joy as she knew, although she knew the trees as large odd grasses. Was their ecstasy let grand, though she met with leviathans that shook the sphere of reality and caused breaks in the curtain, wonderment in the layers of perception, and the ultimate truth - fear at the powerful, unheeding movement of giant bodies, manipulating at their own, unrational whim, the forces of physics which guide, down to the very atom, even their own actions?
Grover blinked. He was worried. This was bordering on cliche, or was it just that it was bordering on an existence facing so closely his own that it felt like watching a movie of his upbringing, which would, he figured, feel rather dull and cliche, unexciting, absolutely predictable.
The yellow plastic seating looked like solid custard, glowing dully in the sun. The hand rail, a once-shiny but now matte silvery blue, caught a spark of light and carried it as if it were an electrical impulse along its length, before depositing it on the plastic surface of a folder, permanently pinned to the end of the car, that held the train schedule and routes. There was, Grover noticed with some dismay, a young boy sitting in the seat beneath the plastic envelope with the schedule and routes. He wore blue velcro shoes, which he would later, much later, wonder what had ever happened to. He had on dark blue cotton sweatpants and a gray tee shirt, with monarch butterflies flying up the front, tucked into it. His hair had been parted at the side and combed neatly across to form an evenly diminishing wave crashing across his forehead, but was now somewhat fuddled, by wind and childish neglect.
Was it rude, Grover inquired of himself, to wonder about the thoughts of him? To stand on the edge of the precipice and look into a mind yet still churning, yet still growing quietly like a snail within his shell, like eating the soft warmth of the apples in a pie while leaving the crust intact. Harold questioned himself from many angles. He saw, even himself questioning himself, asking him if it was in fact his to want, he hoping it was his to need, asking whether it was his to earn, answering himself that it was ultimately not his to own, counter arguing that therefore it must not matter what he wants, for he can never own it and thus cannot change it, but then rebutting that it was not just a matter of the boy, but of his own self, and whether that stake was ultimately more important, asking what that stake really was, whether it was the purity of his soul, in which case he didn't believe in that, and answering with the statement that in fact he did, within his own system of thought, believe that he was pure, to which he said well in that case, maybe he should consider whether his system of thought was not potentially wrong, to which he responded then was he agnostic? to which he replied that agnosticism is a synonym for weakness, from which he concluded that then he must not believe that his own view is subjective, for if he did, then he must also admit that there are other views, and that that there is ultimately some true view, and if that is the case, and yet Grover himself was not sure whether his and the true view really lined up tit for tat, then he must at least accept that, even if he believes himself right, that it is possible that human beings as a rule of the capabilities of the species, may not have the mental capabilities to grasp the complex reality of the truth, to which he conceded, handing himself the medal when it was really due.
So as for the boy, if in fact he was unable to grasp at the truth, then perhaps it was just fine to think of the boy, since at worst he could be imposing a faulty reality, which, because of its faultiness, could be easily seen through, undone, and torn away.
Gerald looked back toward the seat where the child had sat, looked where once his blue shoes had kicked in the air, where once his gray tee-shirt had been tucked, with such intention, into his navy sweatpants. But now there was no boy, no shoes, no sweatpants, no gray tee-shirt. So that was that, thought Grover, he'd never gain the boy, who had, he thought glumly, sat so resignedly, yet easily, in the oversized chair, as if the resignation were a part of a game he was playing with himself, or more likely, with his mother. Perhaps he was practicing for his encounter, preparing the story of his lateness, preparing the story of how he his art teacher had died over the summer, and they had spent the afternoon after school making, out of pans and rags and a mop for hair and the man's denim work apron a shrine to him, which they had been able to display in the entryway to the school. Was she not proud, his Mama? Would she not give him a kiss, not only forgive him, but perhaps allow him to eat his dinner upstairs, alone in his bedroom, under the large blue woolen blanket he had stolen from his parents. It was knitted by his grandmother, the one he had never met, and it had a pattern of large flowers protruding both up and down into the web of the pattern, the petals alternating between sticking out, and being set into the blue yarn, like sand castles and reverse sand castles. The joy the blanket brought him - the slightly smokey smell of the blue wool, the holes where he could stick his finger through, the way it seemed to look like his grandma whom he had never met, seemed to take on her image, even spoke to him in husky voices that talked like the smell of the weave. The way he could happily see the blanket as both a blanket, a full and complete object, and as a long continuous thread of yard, so ingeniously tied as to make the patterns of the petals and vines. This second thing, in fact, was the one he was thinking about. The blanket was at its best - it was the one he wanted to lie under now, eating his chicken leg with mashed potatoes and gravy that had been his father's favorite - when it was a long, ingeniously threaded length of yard. Then it drove his imagination, made him think of the hard, segmented backs of sea turtles pulling their way through the warm Atlantic currents. Made him think of the lives of the little tin soldiers, of which he had 3 sets, though two shared 5 or 6 of the same ones, the children who had once considered them the best thing to come from the finest city, and not just their lives as toys, but how one might march lightly, kneel on rocks and sling deadly arrows from afar at the opposing cavalry, and one might be the heavily armed night, who rode the horse and charged with spear the more lightly armed, though therefore more agile, infantrymen. He cold, when he set them among the holes and thickets of the blue knit blanket, positioned along hills and hiding behind ridges or boulders or occasionally large trees, think only of the slightly sad life one made only to soldier must live, when one cannot have a blanket of one's own, or eat father's favorite mashed potatoes, or know that, when time came, the tin soldiers could remain tin soldiers, still and unnerved, while he left and explored the other rooms of the house, the warm room above the garage with electric heat that they called the studio, because dad used to make paintings there; his sister's room with the white clouds sponge-painted onto the special light blue paint she had picked out; his mom's room, where he could hide under the cob-webbed bed and think neither of the overwhelming lives of the tin soldiers or of the rough pebbles of the school playground that he so feared, or of Mrs. Barbadillo, whose kindness made him big, but whose reprimand made him retreat into the single-sided world, retreat into a world where perhaps he too was just a tin soldier, going on forever on someone else's beautiful blue knitted blanket with flowers popping both up and down, and he stuck in the mire of some stitch, stuck in the never ending nausea of the void left by his poppy, of the stern silence of his mommy, of the gone-ness, the what, grownup-ness of his sister? He hoped to never be so calloused as she, so lacking the imagination it takes to break again into the third dimension, where he could play with other boys, make Mrs. Barbadillo happy, wonder about Kyle Bogard's mother, who packed him stinky egg salad sandwiches, and yet still be ready and happy to play tin soldiers, or crawl on the floor like a soldier without the dread of becoming one himself.
Grover stepped off the train at Memorial Park onto the hard gray concrete. The Korean woman got off too, but the man in Khakis and the boy still remained, their spirits diminishing from Grover's consciousness with the receding rear of the train, as it powered off down the rail. He climbed the hard, concrete steps to ground level, felt immediately the gentle slap of wind on his face, that carried particle of captured light in it, pulling them through the air, as they hit sandwich board outside a coffee shop, the gold outlines of large window lettering, the little pool of water in the depression surrounding a fire hydrant.
"What had Angie to do with any of this?" he wondered aloud. He put foot after foot along the cobblestone sidewalk, staying on parallel flags. A man in the silver mines. That was a fancy way of putting it. A fantasy way. He felt the word out loud - fan ta see. Almost sounded African when you said it that way.
Her dad was a good man, too. Had he never liked Grover? Grover had always felt rather out of place at the grocery, he had no idea what to do with the long brown roots or any of the packaged goods, pyramids of unidentifiable dried seeds or grains or beans. He had bought some on occasion to make her father think he knew, but they still sat on his shelf above the kitchen sink, not even gathering dust, most likely, just being there, a sort of bruise in the corner of his mind that nagged at him.
There was a Virgin Mary of Guadalupe in their shop, hanging on the wall, enshrined in a gold eye. It was even there that the trouble started, perhaps. Her father had caught him looking at it, because there was an interesting false image that seemed to appear in the fabric of her gown, another figure or the bust of a figure looking out, that he had noticed, and he was gazing close up to it, his nose almost against the printed canvas.
"Do you read the Bible?" her father had said. No, he had said, pulling his nose away from the image, not really.
"But you do know who David is?" he had said, from this Grover had guessed, though he had never been sure, that that was her father's name.
"As in David and Goliath?" he had said. "As in the second King of Israel, and the successor of Saul?" he had said.
"So you know the bible," David had said.
"Well, I know who David is," Grover had said. He felt somewhat annoyed at this old man, which was a normal reaction, yes, but it was not because he was questioning him about his religious tendencies - that was for him to know, if he wished, it made no difference to Grover. What was upsetting was that he assumed, then, that he did not know who David was, a central figure of Western mythology. It was just like this old man to ask such a thing, to assume ignorance where there was only disinterest, not even disinterest, but actually an outspoken defense of his own viewpoint, since it was a stance, a private and a public stance, never would he have a poster in his house, in his shop if he had a shop someday, that had a picture of Marx. It's simply that there was an incompatibility between what he believed, what he knew to be true, and the materiality of this old man, who asked him did he know David, and who scratched lottos and counted money and seemed to judge him as he came to get Angie, or when he dropped her off, so that it was he, not Angie, who had been on his mind, who had filled in his dreams even, who had manipulated his brain to the point of outrage.  The man had these qualities:
1) He was never seen without something in his hands.
2) The things in his hand were more often than not trivial, a pencil, the tattered wrapper of a stick of gum, a folded and refolded newspaper clipping.
3) He questioned without words.
4) He never raised his voice.
5) He always raised his eyebrows when he spoke, so that everything seemed like an inquiry.
6) He always made Grover ask for what he wanted, never intuited it. Grover would buy some brown or white or green package of dried beans, and he would say, "how much change shall I give you?" as if this were a matter of subjective reasoning, rather than a mathematical system that functioned on terms equal to all the world, and which mapped on reality unquestionably. There were, Grover knew, new sciences that brought into question, on micro levels, the known dynamics of mathematical reasoning, but these did not necessarily effect the amount of change due on five dollars, when an item cost three seventy-four.
7) This breach of both etiquette and known realities, coupled with the virgin on the wall, led Grover to believe that this man ruled his surrounding by an act of will, rather than by an act of reason.
8) This notion was confirmed by the way he treated Angie, which stemmed from a set of rules the keys to which only he held, and a listing of which were available to no one but himself.
9) So that, the time of Angie's return to the shop was based only on the whim of his own mood.
10) So that, if he said 9 PM, he might mean 8:30, and he might mean 9:30 was acceptable.
11) So that, he claimed to be a vegetarian, but often ate carne asada burritos.
12) So that, he suggested he was well versed in the bible, but he often said, when certain regulars left the shop, that they, despite being Christians, were heathens by attitude.
13) So that, Grover felt that if he were to show up in the wrong color of pants, it would be an undismissable sin.
14) So that, Grover had no idea which pants might be the wrong pair of pants.
15) Which meant that any pair of pants might be the wrong pair.
16) Which meant that every pair of pants might be the wrong pair.
17) All of which could easily explain why Angie was no longer permitted to see he, Grover, and why now the world seemed like a painfully vibrant ride at a fair the exit to which did not exist.
Grover stopped by the corner of Colorado and sat on a bench. There was also a man covered in a blue tarp who was lying on the bench. An opaque plastic grocery bag full of scraps of fabric hung from the corner of the curved wrought iron backing.
That was probably it. But then again, there was Angie herself, who had often sent him on meaningless errands, such as to fetch her some unfindable brand of toothpaste, or to drive to some place to pick up a preordered ticket to a show, only to find that such a show was not happening. She ate Chinese takeout straight out of the box, even when they were together, never bothering to get out the plates, to get out glasses for the wine. Only on his suggestion would they get out wine, and even then he would have to get it from her refrigerator, find the corkscrew, open it and pour it into mason jars. She didn't have dinner ideas. She ate prunes from the jar, which she knew he didn't like. She told him that he had too many clothes on, but then, made him take off his own shirt, made him take hers off, asked him did he know what he was doing? Grover barely dared to finger the space around her nipple. He barely dared to pull her to him, to climb on her, to fall asleep face to face. He said, no, don't turn away. The word love was a burden to him. He said it once or twice. She never said it. To him, the very sound was like a juicy peach that together they ate, licking the juices from each other's hands.
She said, you're always pointing out the difference between us. He said, there was beauty in that difference. She said oh hey when he had traveled far on the train to see her, when he felt the proper response would be at least the loving kiss he so hoped for, the casual kiss that made it all seem secure, usual. The center of love lay somewhere there, somewhere between the boundary of the casual and the exotic, but there was, in his heart, no space for the casual, despite its familiarity. The casual meant doldrums, meant conformity, meant parental acceptance in a world whose outlooks needed to run so far from where the domestic heart lay, that even considering the domestic heart was a tragedy. And yet then what future was there to hold, what possible mode of life, beyond the transcendent, could be made? Because the transcendent was not permanent, by very nature - if it was, it would not be transcendent, for it would not transcend. Perhaps to his parents, their own lives where transcendent, in which case would his, even if he was able to achieve the desired outcome, incite the fear of complacency in the next generation, forming an endless, and never productive, ladder which climbed furiously, but pointlessly, toward absolute obscurity?
The sun was setting, making purple-gray streaks on the glass of the shops. A man in a mail boy cap with a wool coat went into a cafe. A bulky woman in mary janes and horizontally striped tights held in her large hand the small hand of a child, who hung from her arm and walked as if suspended or partially floating on a gravitationally light planet. The wide street, with its brick and glass facades, its gold letterings, converged westward toward the setting sun. Grover felt that to climb out of the fade was becoming more and more impossible, and that now, though seemingly impossible, it was the only reality left to him.
"The wedding was a staid, performed activity, altogether uneventful. Angie, your mother's, paternal grandmother came. She was nearly blind and spoke little English, though I felt the whole time as though I were alone with her, as though perhaps in another life it was her and I who were lovers on the verge of the future, not Angie and I. In my heart, I was ready to get back to the hole in the wall, and other than a few brief words with Angie's grandmother, I remember very little. Perhaps that is best, because if more was in my memory I would have been playing and replaying it at various moments throughout my later life. Instead, I remember mainly the suit I wore, which I had managed to walk out of a department store with, and which was far too small; the seam of the crotch rode up and chafed, denying me even the most basic anticipation for that night, and the arms of the jacket were too short, so that a good half of my forearm showed sticking out. I had tied an old piece of fabric around my collar, which I imagined looked like the sort of cravat you might see Poe wearing, but which probably came across as what it was: a dirty rag tied around my neck, probably to hide some blemish or dirt buildup, and rather than dashing, came across as the fashion manifestation of a slightly deranged mind, just normal enough to be saying comprehensible things, acting within the scenes we pose for, but odd enough not to be able to keep out from it all a symbol of the true order.
It took place in the grocery store, and we walked quite literally down an aisle. One side was empty shelving, while the other held a few boxes of Italian pasta: spaghetti, rigatoni, and linguine. We didn't hire a pastor, but the grocer's husband had a brother who was a minister, and he came and did what passed for a service, a few typical words, a quote from some irrelevant section of the bible, and the standard vows. I had pleaded with Angie to let me write my own, but she would rather not. I think she feared that I would say something sentimental, something that bordered on an expression of love, and she knew that that would take from her father the right he felt he had gained, to claim the union for himself. She also felt, I was sure, that sentimentality was simply out of place in ceremony, because the rites were the replacement, not the acting out of, intuitive emotions, and that if the two mingled, the purpose of both would be diluted and confused.
She was wrong, however, because though I was sure I loved her, otherwise I would not be marrying her, I was not going to say something sentimental. In fact, I had no real interest in being unique or making this ceremony about us any more than it was about anyone else getting married at any other specific place at any other specific time. What I wanted to bring up, was to assure her family that, despite what I imagined they assumed to be my state in life, I was on the verge of something that would lift me, Angie, and her whole family out of the abyss and into some state of ecstatic song. And without the vows, the only way to express this was to act on it, to actually prove that I could, or rather, do it, and retroactively prove my worth, especially to her father whom I understood now to be a man of dry, penetrating discernment.
As I suggested, the night that followed was not one for the yet unexplored erotic passions of the post-nuptual bed chamber. My suit had chafed me until I was entirely desensitized, and for Angie's part, the ritual of the service had put her above thinking about the body, and she never pressed up against me, held my hand, or even allowed me to caress the nape of her neck. But these were only momentary urges that I felt more out of obligation than spontaneity, and I was mostly grateful for her willingness to stick to the task at hand.
We came through the store, and I checked the packages as usual to look for the mint-green ones I had seen being made and organized, but still there were only yellow, white, and red. I explained none of this to Angie, but she followed me around the store to my usual stations, saying nothing, examining faithfully the various plates and teapots that were there for her pleasure. The shop keeper was behind the counter as usual, and as we walked by, we waved, the sort of wave one might give from a steam ship when one is leaving the port, the noisy whistles wailing, the bells clanking inharmoniously in the fresh, briny air, when one is leaving America to cross the Atlantic for perhaps the first time. He looked up from his papers for a moment at us, which I noticed for the first time were not money statements, and were in fact in English, insofar as the letters were English. They seemed to express chemical equations, and I briefly wondered if he was perhaps checking something for the men downstairs, or simply copying out their formulae, but I didn't dare ask, especially with Angie so close. It was our first night together as husband and wife, and I didn't want her to believe there were things as obvious as what my landlord does all day, though I've walked by him at least twice a day since moving in, that I was so completely ignorant of. So when he nodded at us, I nodded back, knowingly, so that if Angie did in fact see our interaction, she would assume, as I wanted her to, that there was a level of understanding synergy between us that bonded me to the shopkeeper.
I left her on the bed, asleep on her back with her hands behind her head. She had taken from me what there was to be had, which was many years of unequal power sharing. It's possible that for a moment we had moved together, that there had a been a simultaneous seeking when she had understood me, and I had glimpsed for an instant the strange shadows that arose like mimicry from her past, that swept around us like ink and demanded of me not to breath a word, not to make, nor do, but to give, and then afterward, when we lay side by side, not touching, she already twitching into sleep, I noticed how those black voices had changed, had met my mood, how in fact they were my mood, were now congratulating me, stroking my head, swollen with blood, caressing my moist hair. And yet, a certain smugness that came into Angie's features the moment she slipped into unconscious sleep, belied a stolen satisfaction, that of the magician, perhaps, who has duped his audience for both their pleasures.
I fought the compulsion of my body to admit success, to give in to the sleep Angie had, to reward myself for doing something most every other person, too, could. I had shifted away from her on the bed, and even in moving I knew I had lost something, that only in the act of seeking what lay beyond the wall would I be able to lift myself up, as the phrase goes, by my own bootstraps. I went to what I now called my corner, walking, with some satisfaction of my own, quietly and confidently on the concrete. I removed the sheet of paper I left taped against the hole, and stuck my eye to the light.
What first came into focus after my eye adjusted was the back of the man who always sat with his back to me, adjusting the drip rate on separational funnels and dipping small pieces of white paper in various liquids that I had noticed would collect in vials on the desk where he worked. As usual, I could not see what he was doing, though the movement of his arms and the downward tilt of his head suggested to me that he was possibly writing.
The other two men, the one stouter and the other with a ragged blond look, were sitting facing each other in the center of room. The machine which was often at work stamping out blank coinage was wheeled to the side of the room, and other than the machine and its engine, against the right wall, the metal scaffolding affixed with glass tubes and funnels and the accompanying desk against the far wall, the narrow table with the two stampers against the left the wall, and two plastic school chairs, the room was empty of furniture. The two men sat in these plastic chairs with their hands on their knees, their eyes fixed into each others, though considering the state of affairs, they seemed relatively calm. I watched for a few minutes for anything changed. The stubbier man, who sat to the left, broke the trance and, having removed a pad of paper and gold pencil from the upper pocket of his button up shirt, checked his watch and wrote some things on the pad. With intensity I eyed the blond during this process, whom I noticed was not able to keep perfectly still, and whose small tics and seemingly meaningful gestures seemed to grow in scope and expressive capabilities as time passed. He would raise a few fingers on a hand at first from his knee, lowering them almost immediately. He would then raise the same fingers, moving his first one as if gesturing a check mark in the air. Then the same, but this time with the added complication of opening and closing his mouth. Then this particular pattern would die out altogether, and a new one would arise, perhaps involving the tapping of a foot accompanied by what looked like a small haughty smile, that would fade to rapidly it was hard to say what exactly it was in the moment after.
If I hadn't seen the man earlier working in a normal fashion, I would think that he was incapable of expression, and yet desired to express something important; that he had neither words nor specific gestures, and yet intuited, from some primeval instinct within him, that expression involved some combination of sounds and movements. Since I had, in fact, seen him working at the minter and stamping patterns into the blanks as effectively as the other man, who was completely capable of writing what I assumed were words on his notepad, I was sure this was not the case, that it was something in my own judgment, or a trick of illusion, that was causing me to think this way. But it was at least certain that he was living through some type of emotional progression, that seemed to move linearly, change dramatically, split off onto tangents, then return to the main theme. I thought I even began to discern longer series within his motions that repeated almost in full, except perhaps a few new additions or refinements. This to me suggested the man must have some sort of memory, or if nothing so complicated, at least some internal system for recording and replaying something. But what? Perhaps an experience so traumatic that the mind of the traumatized was incapable of transliterating it into words and natural human gestures. Or possibly some event that occurred at a time during which the patient had no capability to understand speech, such as in early childhood, and therefore is unable to express in terms to foreign to the original exposure, as if a reel of video tape were put into a projector and though there had been no microphone, were expected to, while playing back the footage, provide the sounds exactly as they occurred during the filming.
I longed to know what that man knew. Or rather, I longed to know what it was he was remembering, if that is the word. Tied up in it seemed the mystery of not only what was taking place, but why; and even more importantly, for I didn't expect myself to actually be able to grasp the what and the why, was how I could get to know them, where was the way into this place, because I had long since given up on the dream of opening my peephole wide enough to climb through. If I understood what is was that had first granted that man access, what experience secured his ticket, I could see if I too had within me that moment, or, though this I doubted even more, could yet create it.
I was so absorbed by these thoughts, or was perhaps living so nearly in the space beyond the wall, that I did not notice Angie come up behind me in a floor length nightgown. She tapped me on the shoulder, and I spun around, for I had completely forgotten anyone else was here with me.
"I was calling you for over five minutes," she said.
"I'm sorry," I said.
"I needed you, it was strange being here along," she said.
"I was just here, in my corner. You might get used to it, just so you know. I spend a lot of time here."
"That isn't much comfort," she said.
"I'm sorry," I said. I really was sorry, because I saw that I had dragged her down here by my will alone, and then had left her by herself, which wasn't, I thought, what I was trusted by her father to do. So I said,
"Here, I'll show you something. Don't worry, it won't make any difference if you shout or try to speak to them, they can't hear you." I took her hand and pulled her gently down to where I was squatting, so the two of us were squatting shoulder to shoulder. I tapped my finger next to the hole of light.
"What am I supposed to do?" she asked.
"Put your eye to it," I said, and I was suddenly so exasperated that I nearly said forget it, and taped up the hole for the night. But Angie put her eye to the hole, both hands flat palmed against the wall.
"I don't see anything," she said at once.
"Wait," I said, "it will take your eye a moment to adjust." I was, surprisingly even to myself, curious what Angie would think. Of course, I had never told anybody about my discovery, never mind showed somebody, and it occurred to me that perhaps she would be disappointed, or not think me very creative. How would I live with someone who did not see what I saw, or saw it, but did not attribute to it anything beyond its superficial existence?
I squatted there some time, trying to distinguish any change in the features of her face, but the darkness permitted me to only see large movements, and I squinted mostly in vain. My legs were fatiguing, and I was about to tap her on the shoulder, and tell her more than ask her that that was enough, that perhaps another time she could come look again, when she said, in a rather alarming voice,
"Oh!" and her hands let go from the wall as she fell back onto the hard concrete, almost like a marble statue being tipped off its pedestal. I quickly did my best to move to where I could see through the peephole, but the stiffness in my legs in combination with her body, which lay partially where my feet would need to be, made it very difficult.
I at last attained the correct angle, and after my eyes adjusted, saw the fatter man lying face down on the floor. The blond man was standing not directly above him, but a bit off to one side, as if he had just stood up from his chair, his fists clenched and his arms straining down toward the ground, while the rest of his lank body seemed to be stretching up. The other man, the one who usually worked at the lab, was for the first time facing me, tending not to the fallen man, but to the other, patting him paternally on the shoulder, and helping him into his chair, while his body maintained its rigidity. The chemist then went over to the stubby man, who had not moved, and laid a broad hand on his shoulder, at which point, he turned over, exchanged some words with the chemist, and stood up. The two conversed, and as they were talking, I got a good look at the chemist's face. It was flat, and looked as if it had been carved out of a cliff. The nose had a deep indent in the middle where, it seemed, the chisel had slipped. His eyes were deeply sympathetic, and I longed to confess some unknown sin to him. He had fine gray eyebrows, like pencil lines, that seemed capable of about as much motion as any artist might give to a line of that length - they twisted, rose, fell, turned, fought, and danced ecstatically almost as he spoke. I realized, too, that he was none other than my landlord, the innocuous man whose orderly but simple apartment I had imagined, and who dusted the upstairs china with the feather duster made of torn rags, and who wrote, day after day, in his small book, tallying what I had always thought were sales, but were perhaps something quite different. He was here too, which seemed for a moment to break a light of clarity over the entire operation for me, but only for an instant, because it didn't, in truth, change anything. It changed only my next interaction with the landlord, because I was able to convince myself that I would approach him.
For a while the two men talked, and the third sat still in his chair, occasionally acting out, only now with stiff, unnatural gestures, glimpses of the gestures I was familiar with from before Angie had interrupted me.
I turned then from the wall, and kneeled down beside Angie, who had melted onto the ground, one arm limply on her breast, the other open-palmed to her side, her eyes open now.
"Tell me Angie," I said, "what happened? What did you see?" She moved her eyes to meet mine.
"Nothing more than you, surely," she said.
"But can you describe it in detail? I mean, think, can't you?" I almost shouted. She shut her eyes, and I could see that my passion was not welcome. There was a moment of silence, then she opened her mouth.
"I can't tell you what I saw, because I'm not sure that I saw anything worth naming. Whatever it was, it might have been meaningful to you if you'd been looking, but to me, it was only three ordinary men, doing what men always do: arguing, probably over some woman. You see? That's not at all interesting, I have no idea why you demanded so harshly me to tell you what I saw."
I stomped my foot and paced around the room. I stopped in front of her, and looked down at her body, lying open at my feet. The pinched "t" where her nose met her brow seemed repulsive to me, accusatory, asking me both why I cared so much about myself, and why I had turned to anger in the place of understanding. It asked me if there was any reason for what I had done, it chided me, teased me, ground me down, provoked me.
"If you want me to leave," I said, "I will."
"That's not necessary, though it is what I want," she said, echoing in mocking honesty what so long ago my parents had said to one another with their public spiteful accusations and gentle, patronizing admonishments, for the benefit of their public. But here, there was no audience, no reaction to confirm or deny the righteousness of any action, and so I stared at her for a moment, got my shoes, and left, leaving the pinhole wide open, its paper cover somewhere folded and tangled among Angie's legs.
Just then Carla came into the room, which shut Poppa up immediately. There was something going on between the two of them, what I don't know. I sort of figured it was relating to Carla leaving Poppa and coming back, but Poppa didn't have much of a feast at her return, really, he was much happier to talk to me, who had at least sort of stayed in the sense that I was out looking for work which in the end would benefit the family, whereas Carla was doing some sort of selfish soul-searching maneuvers, or at least I figured that's what Poppa was thinking.
Carla came in holding a large serving fork, which was the kind that really wasn't good for anything, and so it looked totally natural in her hand, more of a prop than an actual functional tool for food service. That was one thing you could certainly say of Carla, and which she and Poppa both happily agreed upon - that even tools which were of use to some, say a lawn mower (though really we had no lawn, so that's just a theoretical mower), or a very useful set of tongs, would immediately become a burden in her hands, an unfriendly weapon, possibly, the way a gun, which might be an object of defense for some, instantly becomes the object of vibrant and outgoing death the minute it finds itself in the hands of some child, to whom it means nothing beyond the action it is capable of performing.
Anyways, there she was with the large fork in her hands, and she says,
"Well, I made some dinner," which almost seemed to end in a question, which made both Poppa and me laugh, and Carla blushed and then laughed also, and the three of us were hysterical.
"I'll be, then I've got an announcement, too," says Poppa, which sends us all into another fit of laughter, Poppa heaving noisily on the couch like some bellows, Carla tittering like a harmonica, and me, well I'm not really sure what my laugh sounds like from the outside, but to me it sounds a bit like crying.
"Out with it," says Carla, and we both begin the chant, "out with it," and Carla starts banging the fork against her thigh, and I'm clapping my hands together, rocking my head back and forth, out with it out with it! Poppa looks down at his belly, looks at his hands like he's wondering if there his, puts them on his thighs, purses his lips like he sucking on a straw in a particularly thick milkshake, and says,
"Ok, children. I've met someone," he says. So Carla changes the chant to "someone who, someone who?" and I follow along, playing counter rhythms against the floorboards. Poppa looks at Carla, like please do not make me do it like this, please, I'm trying to be a good man despite the severe and unconquerable difficulty of the situation, and I'm feeling good because I can tell that this is what he's telling Carla with his eyes, and she's feeling good probably because she's chanting, and Poppa's not feeling so good, but he's not totally upset either, because he's getting a lot of attention and no one can be upset with a nice chant going on around him. I'm following Carla, who is staring Poppa in the eyes, and she keeps saying someone who, someone who? like she's an owl, so I keep saying it too. So Poppa says, kind of like he's singing along,
"Her name is Mona, and she works at the car place," saying place about an octave higher than he says car, the whole thing cadencing quite nicely in fact. Carla and I cheered briefly, then the three of us sat at the dinner table, where there was in fact a dinner of sorts, some green thing in a bowl, and next to it, an unidentified meat, loafed into a pan.
"Poppa," says Carla, passing him nicely the plate filled with greens and browns, "so do you, in fact, have any idea what happened to Mima's Second Hand?" Poppa, taking the plate and placing it in front of him, tucks a paper napkin into his shirt front.
"You know I don't," he says.
"But you know Mona," says Carla.
"That's true, but Mona works at the car place, not at Mima's," he says.
"But you know that Mona is the Arm's brother's fiancee's mother, do you not," says Carla.
"Tilda's mother?" I say, mashing the green with my fork, and lifting it to my mouth. We both stare at Poppa.
"That's true," he says, lifting the end of his napkin to his beard and dabbing lightly the gravy trapped there, "but what can we do? Six degrees of separation, that's all there is to that, don't accuse me of meddling," he says, laughing again like before, but only now Carla is not laughing, so neither am I.
"I simply accuse you of knowing," says Carla lightheartedly.
"Ah but those are very different things," says Poppa, "knowing and meddling. Meddling relates to active involvement and influencing the outcome of things, and that I have nothing to do with. Knowing, on the other hand, is merely a passive observation, just like you might know that you are eating these green things, but have neither any idea what they are, nor how they were cooked, so clearly you cannot have meddled with them," he says, putting some of them, heaped on a fork, into his mouth. He smiles at me as he chews, and I smile back knowingly, nicely put.
"So are you saying," says Carla, putting down her fork, probably so that the multitasking doesn't obscure her ability to put intuitions into words, "that having only partial knowledge of a thing makes it impossible that you could have meddled? So what if I told you that even I, who clearly meddled with this greens, also have now idea how to name them, have no idea, in fact, how it is that heat plus oil, combined with this greens for a specific lengths of time, yields a more edible product, makes them to lose shape, and yet, as far as knowledge goes, I have only faith, and no real proof, that these greens, before they were what we call cooked are the same greens, the same material objects, that here are cooling on your plate?"
"Don't punish me with your philosophy," says Poppa, putting down again onto his plate a forkful of brown. "You know very well that it is the naming of things that gives them identity, that if we call a thing purple, that makes it so in the eyes of people, though they might all see purple differently. And if we whistle a tune in c major, and say how beautiful it is, then people, hearing a tune with notes that do not correspond to our pitches, might argue it imperfect and unlistenable, when really that is only the case to him, and because of his closemindedness."
"That still doesn't mean," says Carla, heaping more green onto her plate with the large fork that earlier seemed so useless, "that you have no idea what happened to Mima's Second Hand, just because you are unnable to put forth every fact, or see it from a variety of angles. You are just being simple, or rather, you are trying to wiggle out of confession by what you call not-philosophy." That made the most sense to me, because I knew that Poppa was a bit of a wiggler, so I say,
"You can't use not-philosophy on us," to which Poppa, smiling as he smooths his eyebrow, says,
"I knew I raised you with some good sense, after all, and now it's come back to haunt me. So I'll tell you what I heard from Mona, who, as you said, is Tilda's mother, and is also the wife of a Lt. Gen. who comes into the barber shop on occasion. She said, I can't believe it, but I swear it's true it's what she really said, she said, that she always thought Stephen was a bit of a phony, smiling at this, Ma'am-ing her and even rubbing her feet on occasion (which was a bit awkward because at the moment she said it I was rubbing her feet! Coincidence be damned, she planned the whole thing!), but she found from her husband, who goes around with a bunch of other Lt. Gens. that Stephen is being sent to Iraq in the Special Ops."
"We knew that!" say Carla and I, snapping our fingers and laughing.
"But then she says, and you won't believe this, that the quarter racket that I had heard about at the barber shop, that not only was Stephen involved with that, but that so was Steve and even the Arm, though no one can really say whether the Arm, who was very hard to read, she said, though I never knew him personally, really knew what was going on."
"But how?" says Carla, staring wide-eyed at him and biting the nail of her first finger.
"Yes, how?" I say, mimicking Carla and putting my thumb in my ear.
"Well, that's the most amazing part," says Poppa, "they were depositing the coins in the Laundromat on TENTH. And the coins, you see..." But at this point I stop listening. The answers to certain questions that I had no longer seemed interesting. The great mystery of what exactly was behind the wall of Poppa's apartment, the strange interaction I had had with Shet's momma at the laundromat, even Mima's, which Poppa was probably currently weaving into the story, seemed a big joke, a big laugh at my expense. Why else was I, who had acted only out of concern for either myself or for others, tied up in all of this? What genetic malfunction had caused Poppa and myself to end up on opposite sides of this, at the beginning and the end, you might say, of a generation, working it's way pathetically along a vain of ore that ran just beneath the more productive mines that were providing gold and silver to the populace? Explanations were not useful; answers were only as good as their effect, and for me, I must say, their main effect was soporific, for I could not focus, could not reap whatever benefits were being laid at my feet. If I had not known, for example, that it was a giant ape that was the culprit in the murders at the rue morgue, than perhaps I should care to find out, but only if knowing gave more meaning to the deaths of those who perished. Instead, it only made their demise pointless, unhinged, unmournable. Who can come to terms with acts so amazingly meaningless as all of this? Certainly not I, who would rather, I'll even admit it, go clean lint than hear the rest of this story.
Jack Osborne steps out of 132 South Avenue 132. He blinks at the young day, hello fresh air. He reaches behind his ear and pulls out a clean new cigarette. The smoke ruins the young day, now it is old and Jack Osborne is a sad old man, trudging down the road from the home where once he and his Angie made curtains together for the windows, boiled pig feet for 16 hours to make ramen that tasted like pig feet and had the texture of soap. The memory sounds charming, but is in fact a point of annoyance still for Jack, who had hoped to make a perfect tonkotsu ramen.
Jack Osborne sits in his rocker, his wife is showing his son how to trim wax candles. He looks over the top of his newspaper, which had important things printed on it about what happened in the world. Above the words, real people are acting out a scene in which what appears to be a mother is showing what is presumably a son how to trim the tall edges of wax candles when the burnt candle has tunneled a hole down the middle. In fact, Jack Osborne is sitting alone in his rocker, and no woman is speaking harshly and slapping the head of a boy who, despite his best efforts, does not have good hand-eye coordination. Jack is getting up and speaking loudly and standing over the woman, who is now cowering next to the boy who is weeping a bit and still trimming wax candles. In fact there is not even a newspaper. In fact Jack Osborne is trudging down the road.
Jack Osborne cannot afford to buy Angie a terrier. Angie says terriers have an IQ that is more than other types of dogs. Jack says that other dogs would probably disagree. Angie says it's science. Jack says prove that it's science, because it sounds like Social Dogwinism to him. Angie says she doesn't even know what that means and now she doesn't even want a dog. Jack says when she's not angry anymore she'll want a dog again, especially a terrier, and so why don't we just get one already. Angie says they're also the most devout kind of dogs. Jack says well that's good, he can pray for both of us, let's go. Angie stands in the doorway. Jack says I thought you wanted a dog, let's go. Angie says I'm pregnant. But actually Jack stands in the door alone wishing they had just bought a dog. But actually Jack is waiting at a walk signal remembering the feeling of stepping on dirty, slushy snow, which he has just stepped on.
Jack Osborne loves grapes. All kinds of grapes, green grapes, red grapes, Concord grapes, wine grapes. Angie wonders what it is about grapes Jack loves so much. Jack says it's the texture of the grapes, the way they burst in your mouth. But what it really is (this he doesn't tell Angie) is the anticipation of the next grape bursting in your mouth. Because even when he's putting the first grape in, and even before it's burst in his mouth, he's already disavowed that grape, it no longer holds any interest for him. He doesn't think Angie will understand, and he says that to her. Try me, she says, so he kisses her and he touches her hot, wet tongue with his. Do you see what I mean about the grapes, he asks Angie. I think so, she says, but he knows she doesn't get it. But actually Jack is stepping creakily over clods of disgusting snow, feeling them bust into a semi-liquid beneath his feet. These are not like grapes, nothing is like grapes. Grapes, even, are not like grapes.
It has nothing to do with you, says Jack Osborne, you're the ones I like. It's the rest of the pricks. Who, Jonathon Forster? says Carrie, who has a crush on Jonathon Forster. Jonathon Forster's dad, like, owns Sears or something, says Jack. So what's wrong with owning Sears, someone's got to, might as well be Jonathon Forster's dad, says Carrie. Yeah, and Jonathon Forster's dad's son might as well be the son of the guy who owns Sears, says Jack Osborne. That doesn't even make sense, says Carrie. Jack thinks of the time when he and Carrie stood on the bench in the school's lounge and pointed at a big map of the world. Jack had later forced himself to have a wet dream about Carrie, and had never liked her the same since. But actually Jack still hated her, he was now able to admit to himself, stopping for breath against a fire hydrant. She made terrible self portraits of half her face and dated Jonathon Forster, who became a pretty well known though grossly masculine poet.
Jack Osborne places a finger on his nose. What does that mean, says his sister Marie. It means don't tell, says Jack. About the rabbit and the... I said don't tell, says Jack, covering her mouth with his hand. Marie nods under his hand, signing the cross over her body. They are in the closet surrounded by clothes, where Jack has brought her. He can feel her hot breath on his hand, see the earnest fear in her watery blue eyes. Don't cry, Marie, you little crybaby, Jack thinks. Instead, she sticks out her tongue and the wet tip of her wet tongue licks the inside of his hand. He keeps it there a moment too long, savoring the warmth, before pulling it away and saying, gross, Marie. But Marie already knows. In truth, he has no idea what Marie already knew. Marie knew nothing and married somebody in Portland and grew potatoes in an outdoor garden. Jack opens the metal gate which borders on the sidewalk. The gate creeks, as gates should, he thinks.
Jack Osborne's shirt is being unraveled. Bob Jenkins and Henry Friedlander, his two best friends, are pulling the swatch which is unraveling like an orange peel as Jack spins around and around like a top. The long piece of gray cloth, now 20 feet long at least, snaps from the shirt and lies on the ground like a dead piece of spaghetti. Bob and Henry jump on Jack, and Jack, who never was much one for physical exercise, lets them master him against the leather pillows of the couch, his head pushed against the flannel lined sleeping bag, lets them tie his wrists behind his back with the cloth from his own shirt, the remainder of which is now hanging around his shoulders like crude, empty shoulder pads. Jack lets them pull the cloth too tightly around his ankles, smiles up at them when it's over, what a great joke. Remember when we tied you up in your own shirt, they would say later. But actually Jack is swiping a key card against a cold black box outside, heavy wooden doors, which click open. Actually Jack is wearing a turquoise sweater, actually he has still not forgiven Bob Jenkins and Henry Friedlander. Actually he is rubbing his wrists, where once they were tied together, far too tightly for friends, with the torn remnants of his own shirt.
Jack Osborne is hugging a large leg. A large, maternal leg, with loose green sweatpants and black shoes. He has expanded his reach and is now hugging two legs, soft, comfortable legs. Must softer than trees or rocks. Softer even than sand. Probably there is nothing softer, nothing more perfect. There are other legs around, standing in pairs, making a semi-circle. To the back of the semi-circle, and to Jack's back, is a hard, brick  fireplace. The edges are rough to touch. They are the roughest possible edges. The floor is smooth. You are my mother, shouts Jack, but the women laugh. No honey. They laugh again. Jack starts to cry. It's OK, says his mother, who comes from the side of the legs, not above them. Jack is crying and will not look at the owner of the legs, who is the horrible neighbor, Jack knows. But actually Jack does not know his neighbors any more. They have all died, he thinks. They have all finally died, so he can have some peace and quiet. But then new neighbors moved in, who brought with them the ruckus of more kids, more adults, more people. In fact, Jack is unlocking the silver doorknob to a room, in a hallway of other doors with similar nobs and cork board on the wall with multicolored pieces of paper tacked to them.
Jack Osborne's feet are in the sand. His butt is on the sand. His hands are in the sand. He is the sand. He is in a sandbox, with a frame made of dry wood, which feels like the dried naked muscles of a tree. There is a large wooden house near him, he senses it. It is his third birthday. How wonderful. He is near the ocean, which sounds like play itself, but he cannot see it. He only senses its nearness. It is expansive, but his world is bounded by the bliss of sun, which is like the yolky goodness of breast milk. He can taste its sweetness, its fattiness. It is coming from no one. It is coming from him. There is no one else in his sight. Bodies of a man and a woman are through an open door up some white stairs, into a dark room. The house is made of grayed wood, the trim is white. The stairs are made of planks of wood, painted white, and they too feel like the stretched, dried muscles of trees. There is no one watching him. Absolutely no one. It is his soul's first moment of bliss.
But the truth is, Jack Osborne thinks his soul is like a shriveled raisin. He forgives everybody, though he still finds them detestable. He swivels in his black chair and looks out the window at many children, whose lives resemble crude drawings of people living lives. Kicking soccer balls. Sitting beneath a large tree. Throwing a Frisbee. Smiling occasionally, seeming to be generally engaged. Are all of them smart enough to see that this acting is the real thing? Or are they stupid enough to believe that it is the only thing? Both are terrible. Neither is any longer amusing, like they once were. Jack remembers when he was in the high school play. Sarah Watson had some minor part, and Jack played in the onstage band. He had said to her, you were great. She had said that all she had done was shake her booty onstage for a while. He had said, well it was great, and she hadn't really laughed. Two years later he would write her secret cryptic notes with bolded patterns that alluded to his favorite songs, which in turn expressed some semblance of his true feelings. Then he would write her a less cryptic note, and leave it for her to find, and the same day she would hug him in her big white sweater and say she loved him too. Six months after that she went off to college and wrote the occasional letter asking him for words from the truly felt, and he wrote her and wrote her and rarely got a response despite all the pleas. Honesty, he had concluded, was a helpless and pitiful place to be. But actually, Jack Osborne had concluded that over 40 years ago in a gym in Concord, MA. Now he is opening a drawer, pouring out the contents of an orange Rx bottle, and swallowing them with a choking gulp of water. Now he is vomiting on the floor. Now he is on the floor in his own vomit. Now he is being found by a student peering in at his window. Now he is being put into an ambulance. Now he is being taken to the hospital where he will recover, but nobody will come to visit him.
Tilly tongues out of her mouth a small morsel of cake into a napkin. That is one gross cake. It has pieces of candied cherries and pineapple, and some disgusting bits of semi-sweet chocolate. And the breadiness of the cake is sandy. And it's probably made from a box. She throws the napkin into a trash bin and makes a smile despite the aftertaste, which is pure goy.
Tilly's son Shet is doing the thing that sons named Shet seem to do, which is quietly roll up into a corner using some small plate morsel as an excuse. He is more like a lapdog than a son, and doing it the way he does it, it's no wonder he's still single at 34. A lapdog would also probably be single if it behaved like Shet.
Shet comes over to his Mama and says, Mama, what is the purpose of being here? And Tilly rejoins, to go forth and procreate. Shet blinks at her, but is frowning a bit more than before. So she clarifies: Gerry was my best friend and your piano teacher. But her granddaughter was not my piano teacher, says her son. Oh go suck an egg, says Tilly.
They are at Gerry's granddaughter's bat mitzvah. All over the place are small girls. Terry eats another tater tot, which, next to the cake, is the least Jewish thing a person can eat. Probably less Jewish than a bacon cheeseburger, because that's just obvious. It has become hard to deal with social gatherings recently. Shet, for one, is indeed like a lapdog, and generally only fairly annoying people bring lapdogs to social gatherings. Secondly, Tilly doesn't know how to talk to people like Gerry, who has tater tots at her grand daughter's bat mitzvah, and is dating somebody who does auto body detailing. Gerry calls him the detail man, but that's a bit of an overstatement, considering his crude, boyish easy going smile, and the shock of blond hair which has receded back into the middle of his head.
Mama, says Shet's voice in her ear. What, she says. I have to go, says Shet. But I was just getting into things, she says, getting her purse and putting down the napkin into which she has spit the tater tot. She doesn't really care why Shet wants to leave, what she really cares about is that she has a pot of hibiscus tea and chia cold brewing in a jar at home.
She trails Shet behind her, and finds Gerry, who is talking loudly, even more loudly than is necessary with the DJ. Even Tilly knows that in 10 years these kids will have wished there was better music. What will be memorable will be the embarrassment of the things these lady DJs make you do. And it will eat them.
She taps Gerry on her blouse. Gerry says, ah, I see you're leaving. Tilly says, Shet has to go. Gerry gives Tilly a look like that boy of yours is something else. Tilly rolls her eyes, like tell me about it, try having him as your son. But what Tilly is really thinking, is how cold Gerry was. Ah, I see you're leaving, she said, as if a) she expected it, b) she couldn't care less that Tilly was leaving, and c) was there just a little bit of lightheartedness in it, like finally the old fuddy-duddy's freeing us from her dustiness. She can't even work a computer. She can't even use a cell phone. She can't even raise a proper son.
The son is bright outside. Too bright. Tilly puts on overly aggressive sunglasses and gets into the driver's side of her turquoise Cadillac.
"I don't like Gerry," says Shet.
"How can you say that? She was like a mother to you!" says Tilly, gripping the hard wheel with both hands. She doesn't feel particularly passionate about defending Gerry anyways.
"She doesn't think you were a very good mom," says Shet.
"What makes you think that?" says Tilly.
"She thinks she could have raised me better than you," says Shet.
"Go on," says Tilly, making a quick left at a new green light to avoid the rush of oncoming traffic.
"But she doesn't know what I know," says Shet.
"What's that," says Tilly.
"That you weren't a very good mom," says Shet. That was one thing about Shet, he knew how to find just the right words for things.
"You sure know the right word for things," says Tilly.
The problem with this whole affair, is that Mama is sitting angrily biting at foods and spitting them into napkins, which are piling up like origami angels. She pretends to be surprised at how terrible they are, but I think she just eats them in order to make a show of spitting them out. Not that anybody's paying attention to her, because everybody's out talking and Mama is sitting there at the big round table nibbling on tater tots, which I have to admit, are better than I expected, especially considering the level of complaining involved about the tater tots from Mama.
The truth is, a Bat Mitzvah's not a very interesting place for a single 34 year old to be. Mama would say, so why are you single, which is not a fair thing to say, because there is quite a long list that would take hours to explain. Mama's version of single is different from mine, too, because she is never single. There is always at least some person which normal people would say she was "dating," though I would consider it more of having a lot of old person intercourse with. Which isn't strictly true, because while Mama is certainly old, I would not say that all of her, boyfriends I guess for lack of a better word, are old. Some of them are quite young and spry, and I feel as though, under other circumstances, we might be friends, go about town together arm in arm, or more likely, sit at a bar once in a while, and other people would likely see us as very awkward and possibly depressed, though to me, it is mainly the sitting at the bar with another person that is good about that situation, and that in itself would pull me out of any collateral depression I happened to be in.
13 year old girls don't interest me very much. I am also not sure why a 13 year old girl is very off limits to me, who is 34, but to Mama, who is 67, a 46 year old is not off limits. That is one of those mysteries of the universe.
(Carla). I longed for the comfort of Joanna's lap, which seemed to both create the problem, and create its solution, the hair of the dog that bit you, I believe the phrase goes. There was a boy there in addition to me, who seemed to have a similarly indescribable role, or at least it seemed so to me. He had a fascinating little piano that he played on, small melodies that were so out of tune, that they seemed not to be in any key at all, but rather to be floating, ungrounded, as if the grid of harmony had simply disappeared from beneath them. When Joanna was grumpy, which happened not often, though too often for my liking, and increasingly so as I stayed there, she would call in Edgar, who would come in carrying his small piano, and play here these enchanted fragments, as if they were snatched through the keyhole to a different world.
I am still unclear how old Edgar was. He was much taller than I, perhaps six feet, but he stooped constantly and a shock of goldenrod hair coming from his hairline dangled always in the air, as if it were nodding smugly at its own jokes. He was very thin, the kind of thin you think of when you think of people riding in the Tour De France, and he habitually sucked for a moment at the first finger of left hand and then observed it, as if looking to see if he were still bleeding, or had managed to staunch the flow.
He was not at all bitter about being at Joanna's, and even intimated, though mainly through gesture or peaceful reflection on some dying light or a bird's falsetto, that he felt free here, free, perhaps, of the world, because his only task was to occasionally plunk out what would certainly seem, to an outside observer, to be pathetic little tunes, the kind a child might play though I think Edgar was probably my age at least.
His other past time was also minute, and it was weaving electrical wire into small baskets. He had large hands to match his frame, but they didn't shake at all. He said he had learned it from his grandfather, whom he had grown up with, which seemed a very authentic story, though where his grandfather would have gotten a lot of electric wire was not a question I was going to ask. It was enough to have a companion.
How, I asked him, had he gotten here? To which he said he had been found and brought here by Nicholas, who was, I found out, one of the two men who would prepare the bicycle and scarf for me. I saw him and Nicholas speaking on occasion, and they spoke as if there were between them, literally, something which they could both see and were taking turns describing to each other, like a pot of flowers, or a horse's hair brush, something Willem Claeszoon Heda might have painted over and over again, seeing it from different angles, turning it over, placing it in a direct beam of sun, or observing it under moonlight. That was how they talked, and in their talking, I could see they had gained a special connection which necessarily I was separate from. I could not see whatever it was that they saw. I could only guess, and in my guessing, in my conjuring up of still objects floating in space, I realized what happens to very lonely people.
There were even moments when John Smiley came to talk with Edgar. I saw him go in to Edgar's room, and he would stay there for at least 30 minutes, and then would leave and shut the door quietly behind him, as if Edgar were asleep and he feared waking him. But this wasn't the case, for when I would see Edgar later, he would have completed a certain number of small wire baskets, and so I knew he could not have been sleeping for that whole time.
John Smiley hardly ever talked to me. He cordially said hello, kept his eyes down, and generally had no idea how to talk to a young woman, which was absurd, and came to feel like a blow to my own sexuality. Not that John Smiley, who was 40 at least, had a wife and a small child, was an object of interest, but more that I should be to him, that I should at least excite him, that at least he would look me in the eye to see what was there. This too I took as a sign of my own loneliness, because never before had I needed that, I always took for granted that my old maidhood was actually the thing I would hoard above all other people. And now that I was shoved prematurely into it, I found myself lusting, and being denied that, I conjured up images of horsehair paintbrushes, partially peeled oranges, heavy wine glasses with thick stems covered in glass nipples, a leg of lamb sliced open, and a pewter serving boat filled with gravy, with a matching water jug.
Jack Michelle Osborne, you nasty thing. Sixty-seven and dancing on a cloud. Sparkle sparkle goes the champagne. Did you see Lorna Gainsboro? Why yes I did, she's got quite the horny toenails. Oh, you nasty thing, Jack Michelle!
Pat pat the soft head of little Charlie. What a fine lad. You're just saying that to be kind, he's a bit of a fruit, isn't he! He prefers those red-headed dolls with the freckled faces and braidable hair. I hear he likes to squeeze their little hands and put on their pink frilly socks, and maybe dance a one two three. Oh who told you that? It's painfully obvious, Jack Michelle, he's not a bit like his granddad, you nasty thing!
Ah hello Maria Maria, it's you again, shall I sit on your lap? Give your hubby a kiss, right where it counts. Now the other. You say I'm the Belle of the ball? Well that would make you the beast, now wouldn't it. But you're just flattering me. You're the one in the big wicker chair, you're the one everyone wants to see. People line up all the way to the bookshelf to touch the hem of your dress! No don't get up for me, I am merely your servant, this is right where you belong, Madame.
Ah, BruceSusan, you're talking again about my favorite subject, politics! With a capital P, as in pooh! You wouldn't happen to know who will win for President, do you? I'm just sick of waiting. President starts with P also, ha! What a hoot. I do wonder what Luis has to say about all of this. He's authentic! Still got family in Dur-ah-ngo, that's a soft A, like Tom, Dur-ah-ngo.
What? Oh, no, congratulations to you! But yes, 35 years is a long time. Amazingly, college seniors are always the same age, no matter how old we get, but I guess you know that as well as I. I'll miss their fresh, bright, faces, eh Bruce? Not all of them are so bright anymore. Lorna Gainsboro's not 22 any more, no sir, not with those legs. Used to look pretty good in Converse Allstars, now she's wearing 2" heels. Trying to make up for something, I suppose.
Flip flop, seems like I'm the only one drinking. But I've earned it. Where, after all, would Lorna Gainsboro be without me? Certainly not teaching intro art history to the wee bright-eyed pupils! There it is, one for the body, one for the soul, that's the important one - they don't call them spirits for nothing!
Karen, I never thought you'd come, I really thought you had a thing against celebration! Say what do you think of this: today's word of the day is Forgiveness. That's an appropriate theme for a retirement. Let's try it. I'll forgive you for telling Dean Stroh that I (and I think I'm quoting here) "may have passed a few students based not on their academic merit, but on their, how do I say it nicely, physique." Your grammar is right out of Strunk and White, perfect little woman! We both know you were just jealous that I was chosen for chair that year. But you're not going to get off that easy, don't walk away now. You have to forgive me for something too. I'll tell you what it is: I'm the one who broke the coffee machine in the faculty lounge. Our little secret, tee hee. OK fine, go ahead, tell the Dean, see what I care. They can't take away my pension now, plus what would you do without your cappuccino? The old machine only made drip.
Toe tum, and a tee hee hee, let's see what's up with little Charlie. Still zoom zooming his little Tonka wonka. Do you see how he loves the little dump truck, Maria? You say he hasn't touched it all night? Oh well, he must have a thing against yellow. I should have gotten him blue, more manly color.
Oh no, Maria, don't tell SusanBruce about that. It's not really true, I don't steal from him, he's 5! How can he possibly understand possession. It's a tax, see. Everybody gets taxed, I'm just helping him to heed the reality, since his good-for-nothing mother thinks we should just pay the government to do everything for us, lazy bumpkins. What, you say the left is crumbling because of men like me? That is simply not true, oh you monsters! The left is crumbling because a bunch of self-righteous BruceSusans are employing their kale-munching mind-games to convince everybody that their problems are liberals" problems, and that basically everything is just ship shape, la la la, except when it comes to anything decent social human beings like, all of which are absolutely verboten.
Wait, what was that? Hello! Did everybody hear? Susan says that 9 karat gold is the leading cause of colon cancer among all men ever! Extra! Extra! Here, take my wedding ring why don't you, I don't need it anyway. And Bruce, thank you thank you! I never would have guessed that Angostura bitters tend to make a man overly pompous and prone to wild and noisy ranting. And it makes their hair gray too? I shall never drink an old fashioned again! Look, I'm dumping mine on the floor. And here's one for you - happy marriages make you weak-minded. Good night, my sweet princesses!
Goodbye Jessica, goodbye Anne-Marie, goodbye Jacob, Todd, Jacob, Roseanne. What a world we live in, where the young leave so early, and it's up to us old fogies to keep the midnight oil burning. I never realized how much the pressures of work were keeping down my spirit, Maria! Two months ago I'd be in bed with ear plugs in, complaining about the noise from next door. Now look at me. Avanti, Pegasus! Or perhaps Vamos, Pegasuso. You say I'm more a Sancho Panza than a Don Quixote? I'll take that as a compliment, I've always considered myself a man of the people. Anyway here's a sanchismo for you: as the saying goes, where the hell is your daughter? She was supposed to read something in my honor, and now there's no one left to read to. Right, except you. And excuse me, our daughter, because she's mine too. And don't tell me she's getting inspired in the basement. Inspiration isn't going to pay for my hospital bills in 20 years when I'm dying of emphysema.
In a way though that will be sort of interesting, won't it? When you're dying, you don't have to put up with a bunch of SusanBruces creeping around like Simon and Garfunkel right up into your ear telling you what they think you ought to know but don't. No, BruceSusan, I didn't know about the effects on the ecosystem of the Hoover Dam. No, SusanBruce, I didn't know that the ancient Athenians" silver mining operations left carbon deposits on glaciers on Greenland. 35 years I had to put up with their rational explanations. Aren't there any goddamn mysteries left? Didn't leave a man any space for exploration, any space to consider what happens if.
If what, you say? If anything! If, let's say, I'd retired five years ago when I became eligible instead of fading away like some Mick Jagger. Or maybe I'd quit eleven years ago when your mother died, and we'd lived off of your inheritance and I'd learned to shoot skeet and write poetry like I always wanted. I did too always want to be a poet. Nobody takes me seriously.
Or what if I hadn't gotten this job, and instead we go driving for a while and in the middle of Arkansas a snow storm breaks out. SusanBruce will tell you that there's only one plow in Arkansas, and our windshield wipers just pfft, like that, so we stop by an RV shop to get them fixed, but it's closed like everything else. There's two big men in camo about to take off in their pickup truck, but instead they fix our wipers with a rubber band and a pen cap. They have this funny teacher/student relationship, and even though there's no real mechanics involved, the one sort of shows the other how to hold the rubber band, and guides his hand down the smooth glass and into the body of the car to where the washer has snapped. When we rev up the car and the wipers flip flop again, the two men just give each the knowing glance that yes, they did good in the world. And at our expense, you would say. And that would ruin the whole thing, now wouldn't it.
Hey, that could too happen, what do you know about what couldn't happen, Maria? In fact, it's pretty likely that anything couldn't happen. You're always doubting, just like BruceSusan. At least little Charlie doesn't doubt his old grandpa, does he, no sir he loves the Tonka trunk Grandpa gave him, that's the kind of truck real men drive, not like an old Honda Civic with the roll up windows but even so, one of them doesn't open. That reminds me, I've got another thing for you. I'll just go to the bedroom to get it, as long as your good-for-nothing mother didn't pawn it for something like a coat, goddammit I can buy the kid a coat if he needs a goddamn coat. Stay here with your grandmother a moment.
Oh my, hello heart of my hearts! Lorna, what are you doing here, someone will see you. Come lie with you, you say? But socks are terribly uncomfortable in bed. Oh that's Maria's perfume, she adores no. 5, but it works quite well on you, no that's just the Angostura talking. Do you still have your shoes on in here? I must say, I'm supposed to be getting something for my grandson. You don't give a hoot about my grandson? This is sort of like the old days, isn't it?
Even I have to admit that Mama's gone a bit far this time. First off, Applebee's is not the sexiest place around, though Mama says she managed to start a good number of relationships, if you could call them that, over a plate of double-glazed baby back ribs, Full Rack with sauce and fries. She says her willingness to consume calories has not only seemed to shock men into submission, but has also made her able to stay up late enough to at least get them home, which is frankly a little bit more information that I needed to know, but I do appreciate her honesty.
I would consider myself an honest person too, and that is why I will tell you that this will never work out. First of all, I am the least likely person to be at an Applebee's, which means that I will instantly come off as awkward and unfit. In fact, even the lighting does not become my complexion, and is seeming to give my face a ghostly shade of green that I can see in the mirror behind the bar. Second, today is not exactly the best day for a date. The Bubble Mart will not run itself, which means that no day is a good day for a date. Mama says that in fact the Bubble Mart will run itself, and she double checked that all the instant-dispense soaps were full, and that the dryers were lint free, which usually she does not deign to do. In fact, usually, she does not even come to the Bubble Mart, and when she does come, she more often than not sits in the little room in the back and drinks tinctures and generally avoids the public part of the store. I don't fully understand her reasons for avoiding it, because it is actually a very pleasant place to be, what with the whirring of the dryers, pok pok pok of the washers, the sensational news always playing on the corner T.V., because that is what people want to see when they are waiting for their clothes to dry. I have asked the customers myself, and they all seem to say that that is what they prefer, though very few of them speak very much English. There is Tony, whose English is quite good, and he comes in to watch the T.V. often. I have never, I'll admit, actually seen him washing his laundry in any of the laundry machines, and in fact his clothes, which come to think of it, are always the same, always seem to be just as dirty when he comes in as when he leaves. But nevertheless, he seems to enjoy the sensationalist news, and so I always leave it on.
The other thing I have to tell you, is that Mama is here at the Applebee's. I am sitting at a small table. I have arrived 30 minutes early, which will give me enough time to go to the restroom and make sure there is nothing in my teeth. It will also give me enough time to make sure my waiter is respectful and will not make awkward conversation, and it will give me enough time to make sure that he knows I am on a date and have come alone, so that he does not confuse us for an already existing couple or worse, a married couple, and make some joke at that purpose, or suggest we share plates because they are big enough for two. If my meal is big enough for two, I will simply get a doggy bag. Before I left I made sure that there was enough room in my fridge to accommodate a fairly large Styrofoam box and potentially a smaller one as well.
Mama is sitting at the bar, which, she says, is very familiar and comfortable to her, so she tells me not to worry and to have a good time. She did not explicitly ask to come, but perhaps suggested so, and it doesn't make much difference to me, since in fact I am used to her coming most places with me, including Applebee's, where we have dined together often. It is true that she is capable of eating an entire rack of double-glazed baby back ribs, though she often leaves the fries on her plate, because she says they unbalance her system. Usually I order a salad with grilled chicken, which is the least upsetting thing on the menu.
What is happening here tonight is not exactly a date. It is more of a meeting, since we have never spoken before. I always considered a date to be a more formal getting to know you after some less formal sort of meeting, so I am trying to consider this one of the those less formal sorts of meetings, which makes me more comfortable than calling it a date. The second thing is that lonely people go on dates, whereas I am not lonely at all.
This woman whom I am going to meet is named Melinda Barberry. Her last name is also a kind of plant that apparently produces a very acidic berry common to Persian cuisine, though I certainly have not tried it. Encyclopedias can tell you all sorts of things. Melinda is a pretty name. Mothers can tell you all sorts of things too.
Melinda Barberry is the daughter of one of Mama's friends, whom, it turns out, she met at this very same Applebee's. His name is John Barberry, and he comes over occasionally. He often wears white shirts without sleeves and likes to help Mama fix ordinary problems, like plumbing or electrical things. I have even caught Mama specifically breaking a plumbing or electrical appliance in order to invite John Barberry over to fix it, which he does with grace and sincerity, though I can only imagine that it's very obvious to him that it was tampered with by a strong for her age, but relatively not that strong, middle-aged woman.
The other day Mama says to me Shet, it's time we got you a girlfriend. She told me, and she's probably right, that she knows of a lamppost which has had more sexual encounters than me. I don't doubt it. I've seen the way certain women hand around certain lampposts, though I myself have never been very interested in either the women or the lampposts.
I didn't object, because once Mama gets an idea into her head, it is absolutely not possible to get it back out. Even the Bubble Mart was her idea, though she doesn't much like to admit it. One day she said to me Shet, we should buy ourselves a laundromat. I'm not sure where she gets these ideas about laundromats and lampposts, but like I said, once it's in, it's never coming out again.
So rather than object I say OK Mama, which I know will get her off my case for at least 3 days. That's a funny thing. You might think that would get her on my case, but in fact it takes her off. When she gets a big idea, she goes away and spends some time with it, or at least I think that's what she's doing. There is always lots of banging and moving of furniture and more banging and the occasional shouting, and it generally sounds like she's giving birth to something much larger than one is supposed to give birth to. But then eventually out she comes with some great idea. First it was the Bubble Mart, and on Tuesday, it was Melinda Barberry.
The last date I had was when I was in college. We had had Economics 101 together in the basement of the Fuller Building, and I saw her in the dining hall. She sat down across from me and we ate our grilled cheeses together. I always thought it was incredible that we had both chosen grilled cheese on that day, because there were many options: some sort of eggplant Parmesan, a spaghetti with meatballs, green beans (which neither of us got), not to mention the typical salad bar, waffle bar, omelet bar, and cereal bar.
I suspect that Mama has some ulterior motives for me going on a date. As of late, I have gotten in the habit of watching reruns of Flash Gordon which I downloaded onto a DVD. I don't think Mama likes Flash Gordon much, and if often asking me to either turn it down or turn it off, but Flash Gordon is not much good if it's only turned down, and so the only option is off, which is, I think, what Mama is actually after. The problem is, I still have 3 DVDs left to watch, and I suspect that is the reason why tonight I am on a date.
In the mirror I am watching the hostess kiosk for any sign of a person who might resemble Melinda Barberry. I have to admit that I have no idea what Melinda Barberry looks like. I have seen John Barberry, so I am looking for somebody with a white sleeveless shirt and blue jeans, though I am not altogether certain that Melinda Barberry will have the same sense of fashion as her father.
At the kiosk there is standing a man with a black sideburns and a neat mustache. He seems to be speaking loudly to the hostess, though I am not sure whether it is angry speaking or not, because he might be shouting over the same smooth jazz that is making it difficult for me to hear whether he is shouting or not. This, I presume, is not Melinda Barberry.
Next is a woman who is almost as old as Mama. She has an old fashioned sort of prairie dress on with a lace collar and white buttons. She has two children with her and a man who is holding the hand of the one of the children, all of which leads me to believe that this is also not Melinda Barberry.
For a moment there is nobody at the kiosk. Then the doors open and an amazingly large person walks in. Whether she opened both doors in order to accommodate herself or just because it was easier than opening one and walking sort of to the side of the kiosk, I am not sure. Her hair is in what can only be described as Princes Leia hair, which is to say long and ear-muff shaped. Otherwise her attire is normal: she has on a red zip-up hoodie without the hood on, pants, which seams fairly normal, and presumably a shirt on under the sweatshirt. She speaks with the hostess, and she has a very ergonomic smile. The hostess points toward me, which is a sign to me that in all likelihood, this is Melinda Barberry. It's interesting that she is wearing an outfit that approximately resembles, both in color and general shape, the fruit of the barberry plant, if my encyclopedia is to be believed.
As if to show that I had not been waiting long, I take a pretend sip from my water glass, which the waiter has already refilled twice and which he did not refill after I finished it ten minutes ago or so. I feel a tap on my shoulder and turn around in a sort of pretend surprised way, but accidentally turn my nose directly into the soft red belly of Melinda Barberry's red sweater.
"So you're Shet Goldman," she says, eying me up and down, which, I'll admit, doesn't take long considering I am approximately five feet and two inches high on a good day.
"All five feet two inches of me" I say, getting up to shake her hand. I come up to about her shoulder, I would venture. I stick out my hand in what I presume to be a very considerate manner, but receive instead a large hug, in which my face becomes embedded in her shoulder temporarily.
Fortunately for me, I have already picked out what I plan to eat - the chicken salad with a baked potato side, which I consider an economical dish, containing most of the food groups. I figure I can drink a glass of milk later, if I'm feeling dairy-starved. Melinda, who does not even glance at the menu, orders a bowl of chili and a riblets platter with fries, which seems to me like a very good meal indeed. The waiter, who has either got the drift of the situation, or was lectured by Mama at some point in the last 30 minutes, manages to not make a big deal of the date scenario, and acts as if we were just meeting each other, which is in fact true.
Although I have drunk 4 glasses of water, I manage to go to the restroom only once throughout the course of the dinner, which seems like a good average number of times. It is fortunate that I am a practiced water drinker. I am a little disappointed that the lettuce, which is cut into long this strips, is extra loud tonight, which makes for a bit of extra crunching that I do not think suits me particularly well. Melinda, from what I can gather, is enjoying her riblets, which turn out to be regular ribs cut into much smaller pieces, which I presume is for ease of consumption. I have often seen mother eating a plate of ribs not cut into riblets, and it would not suit Melinda Barberry, who, I can tell, is a very delicate person.
I would say the majority of our conversation is about the food, which, although she pretends to be tasting with specificity, I know she is quite familiar with considering that she was able to order without glancing at the menu. When the night is over, we exchange a further hug, in which my head is embedded in her other shoulder, and she suggests that perhaps we meet again at Arby's. Both her use of the word meet, and her suggestion of Arby's, which is another place where I can arrive 30 minutes early without much suspicion, are satisfactory, and so I suggest we do in fact do that.
I meet Mama in the car, and she pokes me in the ribs.
"So, did it do you good?" she asks. I respond that the chicken was the same as usual, and that we plan to meet again at Arby's next week. This, I think, will get Mama off of my case for at least 5 days.
6
[Unknown A1]And while the love instinct (eros) can be commandeered by society to bind its members together, the aggressive instinct runs counter to this tendency and must either be repressed or be directed against a rival culture.
