The sexiest thing we did was eat potato chips in the dark. We wouldn’t take the elevator up to my 5th floor apartment or use the revolving door. We went through the regular push door. He’d hold it open for me, and just to make it clear how I felt about that I’d tap him in the crotch on the way through. I seemed to see this sort of thing would happen forever.
But that was our religion. We took divine walks from the couch to the balcony. The sound of the world roared in when we slid the glass door aside, and it was as if the voice of the universe condoned our every act.
He asked me, blinking his notable brown eyelashes and looking at me through the tunnel of his notable brown eyes, “What is your personal rainbow?” I tossed a chip over the edge of the balcony and watched it as it plummeted, fast as a canon-ball. Then he told me that he had always hated Renoir, the painter not the director. I said, “What do you hate?” And he said, “Oh everything!” And I said, “Why hate?” And he said, “That’s how to distinguish yourself.” What he really said was nothing but pulled me into him and pressed his lips on mine. But what I heard was, that’s how to be a man.
If I felt like holding something warm, I visited him in his castle, Café Café. But I never gratified him – he and I were two divergent sorrows, he below a din of people talking, me a mere marble lost beneath a couch. That is – I ordered just a cup of drip for here, never a latte with its bulbs of suggestive white foam, blooming from the unseen stem beneath. I mostly held it, the way one holds a drawn out single note until it becomes, seemingly of its own will, the fundamental harmony of some new chord. I put the mug, white and fat, missing just two tastes, back on the counter for him to empty dutifully. I admit it – I hoped resentment would reveal itself then, but I never stayed to find out.
But later, he said, “Your father must have beat you. I can help.” Yes, I thought, this at last is it. He wants to know me. “Treatments are painless,” he said, “very relaxing and enjoyable.” Who could say no to that? He had said something similar one year before. It was during one of those very painful times when the news affected you. It came through the TV characters unscathed, and sat on your chest and breathed cold air down your throat. We were walking down a popular street filled with other people walking, and a TV was playing in the window of a store that sold very big clothing. No sound came through the glass until some giant (so it seemed) came out with a bag I could almost fit inside. “At least 56 people have been confirmed dead,” said the voice that lined up with the mouth on the TV. “Police are still not sure whether the gunman acted alone, or had” and the door shut again. I squeezed the hand I held, and looked into the face that was there beside me. “I want to be a poet,” I said. “I can help with that,” he said. “Treatments are painless, very relaxing and enjoyable.”
We were sitting on a wooden slatted bench in the park across the street from my apartment. I kept my eye out for potato chips. “Now,” he said, “you may experience painful emotions.” He put his hand on my knee. Yes, I thought, it was happening already. “Old traumas may be released,” he said. That’s OK, I thought, it’s always good to make room for new ones. “I know you’ll be strong,” he said. I’m not so sure, I thought. “But just in case, here’s some gum,” he said. But what he meant was, time will make a man of you yet.
We sat for a while. I suppose he was timing it. We had our eyes shut and were supposed to be breathing, a thing which I discovered I was naturally good at. I peeked open my right eye to look at him. He looked very uncomfortable sitting on the wooden bench with his eyes shut. I wanted to say, What does this have to do with being a poet? What does this have to do with dances of Universal Peace? As if I could really change my life almost immediately in one two-hour session! But he was right. My father had beat me. My fathers. And my fathers’ fathers and their fathers before them. And worst of all were the fathers of my imagination, who lured me into their magnificent houses, full of sorrow and beauty and truth, and beat me. And I still hid the lash marks under a big sweater or behind a small word. And I still hid my crumpled feet in red Chuck Taylors. I couldn’t have cared less for his psychohumanism. But I had to get a job. I needed to change my life again. So I shut my eyes and thought about what I could do to really offend him, and I decided I’d go to Café Café and make a scene and make everybody think he was dating a witch. I opened my eyes and put my lips right up to his ear and whispered, “Just don’t think I don’t recognize you, Asmodeus.” And when he frowned I kissed him on the cheek. I hope he thinks that was some old trauma, freeing itself.
Just So You Know, Captain Duda
Momma, she was a little zaftig pate to nail, that is to say, she was practically a conspiracy theory. She was a slap in the face with cold water. That is, she gulped slivovitz by the pint, but that wasn't her best feature. What made her was she ate pickled tomatoes by the mouthful, and who would deny a whole day could be taken up by tapping her foot to a music nobody but herself could hear, sitting on the old avocado-green sofa patting the dust up into clouds?
It wasn't her fault, she was waiting. Nobody came jaunting or revving or sidling up the lane ‘til the sun went and the little red chili pepper lights came on in the window. That was when she really got going, got us up in Goodwill dirndls, said it made the picture. But we’re not German, said Gretta, and Momma said Oh yes we are, we’re as German as Apple Pie, and it's true our last name was Rosenblum.
Gretta's dirndl was much too big and made her feel sorry about her breasts, which were still little molehills capped by wine-colored nickles. Mine was for a toddler and was a squeeze and Momma’d say, eyebrows clamping down, You’ve been eating chips again, and I’d say, No, it's the way I was born, and would pinch her on the underarm to prove it. She'd take me off of Oreos for a week but it never made any difference, I was always just an unplucked grape. Then Momma'd make us sit on the couch and I was allowed to read a book but Gretta said it was imprisoner-ment, and she refused to do anything and even when Momma went and got her coloring books and new pencils Gretta said Feeding a dog doesn't make it free. So Gretta sat on the one side of Momma picking at her lip and I on the other reading. And oh I almost forgot to say what Momma wore, which was a shiny black kimono from the We Buy Gold, and lacy stockings and a little hat like a yarmulke that had a bow in it and rode on her hair like a little ship in a stormy sea. And when she first came thumping down the stairs in that big silk thing trying to get the belt right, Gretta went arms akimbo and said, We’re not Japanese, and that was true so we named the cat Shiro which is Japanese for white, even though the cat was raw umber. It's an allusion mama said, but I knew very well the cat was real.
And when the room flooded with light and purring from the big Jeep that parked along the opposite side of the street, I was supposed to be reading my book and Gretta was supposed to be sewing but she hated sewing and so Momma let her comb Shiro with the pink plastic brush. I was always too jittered up to read, and I think the dirndl cut off circulation to my head so I went a bit hazy anyhow. We were all very quiet when the clackity boots came stumping up to the door, except Shiro who was simultaneously licking an inner leg and humming a fugue while Gretta tried to comb her. And Momma would whisper with a shade of melancholy, It's Captain Duda again, which was always true and it was never anybody else.
When the boots went mute there was always a long breath like a prayer before the knocker clanged into the living room. Momma would shuffle over and open the door, saying, Well who could that be, just so Captain Duda might hear it, and then she'd say Look who it is girls, it's Captain Duda, which was no surprise. I think that made Gretta very mad because she always pulled the cat's tail right when Momma was turning the knob so it screamed and ran across the living room and darted up the stairs. Gretta would slide off the couch and trudge after the cat upstairs and slam closed the door to our room and not come down ‘til the next day. Captain Duda would say good-naturedly, in a rumbling tectonic voice and pushing up his cap and rubbing his forehead, She must be in one of those phases, if I know girls, which believe you me I do, they have phases, and Momma would raise her hands as if to say What can you do? and the sleeves of her Kimono would slide down her arm to the elbow revealing white flesh.
Captain Duda wore a raw umber uniform like the cat, and had his brown kashket cockeyed, and red and blue and green and white and yellow colored squares over his breast pocket, I went dizzy trying to count. But most of all he wore tall black patent boots with eyes and silver lugs that went right up almost to his knee and reminded me of a dirndl for his calf. And Momma, tightening her black silk belt and shaking her head at the stairs would always say, And I was just telling them about please and thank you.
When you folded over to untie your boots, Captain Duda, I saw the space between your shirt and your belt, I saw the truth: you were made of straw. Impatiently, I think, though with a pretense of affection, you padded across the room and leaned over me and with your cinnamon breath removed a pixie stick from your breast pocket and said, I could just eat you up, and tucked the nasty paper tube behind my ear. You patted my double braid, frizzed with black escapees, and said, blinking your blond girlish lashes like liars always do, Now let the adults talk. Momma was chewing off the end of a nail, rubbing an invisible medallion between the thumb and finger of her other hand. She didn’t say anything but tapped a slippered toe to her shadowy, muzzled music. So I hopped up the stairs in my shrink-wrap dirndl. Gretta and I would pretend it was an alien invasion and plug our ears so we wouldn’t hear their fatal sonar. But it was just you, Captain Duda, banging around and making a whole lot of noise.
The next morning you were always gone, Abducted by the aliens, Gretta would whisper, to make me laugh. We found the cereal and ate it with spoonfuls of sugar and skim milk. Then Momma, shaking the night out of her hair, made up with inks and powders for hiding tired flesh, went past the kitchen clutching a zaftig little umber envelope in her hand and we heard the door handle moan and the lock’s tongue latch. A little later we heard the scraping of the key, and she’d drop two Snickers bars and a bank receipt on the kitchen table before wading back to bed, but we were already too full of sugar and hid them in a little cigar box under our bed.
And once, it was the very last time you came, we heard you stomping around the parchment-thin carpet. (We were still whispering, the aliens hadn’t yet come.) You said you weren't to blame, can't be to blame, it's not possible, nobody can be blamed for that, least of all you, who was minding your own business all this time, it was only for play, the last thing you needed was that, you didn’t invite death to the table. Then Momma spoke and you shouted words now famous in our memories: I have a wife, I have two kids, this is about my dignity. So you left, clackity-thump, when Momma told you what she'd found out about tumors and breasts and hers in particular. You left so fast you forgot to tie your boots and tripped over a lace going out the door and broke a little terracotta planter with an unhappy stalk of basil in it I brought from garden day at school. We came tumbling down the carpeted stairs and Momma was on the couch looking unhappily at one exposed mammary. Nobody invites death to the table, Captain Duda, she said, but he always starts with the finest cuts.
And did you think I missed you when we sat five nights ‘til midnight and Gretta combed Shiro mostly bald and I had to start my book over three times and Momma worried a hole in the rug pacing and unpacing and gnawing and brushing the same dust off of her robe each time light flooded our living room? But it always moved on, swiping a path of darkness across our house on its way to other living rooms, to other people waiting.
Eventually, we did him justice. It was well known that Gretta thought unfrozen peas looked like little wrinkled leprechaun testicles and one night, a month or so later, she frowned down at a plate of them Momma had drowned in corn syrup. She pushed back a thatch of curls and stood on her chair, brandishing a knife in one hand. I have a wife, I have two kids, this is about my dignity, she sang, and with a little bare foot flipped the plate right off to where it smacked with a sticky clackity-thump against the molding. Momma stood to yank the impersonator from her soapbox but fell on the floor in the meantime. We crowded round and pet her head and stared down on her sun-wrinkled face, which laughed the triumph of impossible justice.
We were a real mess of sticky testicles and broken china, and meanwhile I was becoming cynical of entering wholeheartedly the acid dreams of futurist robber-barons. I resolved never to trust men with candy or in high leather boots. Only Momma, about to die, could ever understand whether the dirndls and the kimono were a defense or what. A mind jacked up on vague expectations loiters aggressively over the details.
Bachelor in Paradise, S5 E9 Week 5, Part 2
by Saul Alpert-Abrams
1: Change Happens: They Keep Moving The Cheese [Applause]
You are chosen to go on a spectacular date. At first, you really can’t center yourself. Maybe you confuse the thrill of the ATV bumping over fabulous Mexican rocks with a sensation resembling the nausea of love. [solemn music] You are led to believe your heart is tearing open. A brown child picks his nose and winks at the salty air. It is soon confirmed, during a scene in which your tongue is featured as a main character. It was, STEAMY. In an interview with the camera, you make a very successful observation: I just think he and I, well, we have the makings of, I mean, let me just say, like wow. You are smarter than any designated hitter in Major League Baseball. As the camera guy changes lenses, you understand that he wants to see you for who you are, which is more than any of the men or women here in Paradise can say for themselves. But he is off limits, as he is paunchy and his wet hair sticks to his pink forehead.
2. Anticipate Change: Get Ready For The Cheese To Move
There’s a lot of humping, you’ve noticed, similar to what the numerous stray dogs do to each other, to a leg, to a pile of hay. You try it with a large, square, multi-colored pillow. It roughens up your inner thighs. It’s gonna get weird. [applause] Does this process work? A short brown man humps a sack of potatoes over his shoulder on the road. Another, wearing a poncho matching your humping pillow, tunes a guitar. Does this process even work? Your date from last night is humping someone in the cushioned palapa. [intriguing music] You are giddy with delight: anything can happen in Paradise.
3. Monitor Change: Smell The Cheese Often So You Know When It Is Getting Old
You told Kamil, the thick-skulled hotty whose body recalls an overstuffed armchair, that you would make him chicken salad. You taste his rough chin, the opposite of chicken salad. You and I are going to be the worst parents, he says as an infant arrives in your arms and a toddler is handed to Kamil. The toddler wails and never ceases for eighteen years. The cameraman is changing lenses again, trying to get a real glimpse of you. A producer steps out from behind a fronded pole. I’d like this experience to be the beginning of something big, he says, touching your shoulder. What does this mean? you cry, since producers always know something you don’t. Kamil is still holding the shrieking toddler but he doesn’t know it’s his very presence that is the problem, a fact you find endearing. You have a lot of growth to do, says the producer, touching your opposite shoulder. He is wearing white linen pants and a white blazer with no shirt. A few palm trees are swaying nauseously in the wind. Kamil comes up with the kid at arm’s length. They’re like actual children, he says, and frowns. A waft of full diaper passes your nasal passage. Kamil does not seem to notice.
Adapt To Change Quickly: The Quicker You Let Go Of Old Cheese, The Sooner You Can Enjoy New Cheese
It’s very simple for you in your mind, because you can still separate out the part of you that knows what you feel from the part of you that walks the fine line between persistent and cray-cray. (That’s Kevin’s words.) You are the blonde girl. Kamil is a hunk of man. You are at some girl’s quinceanera. A band of Mexicans is playing guitars and working at auxiliary percussion and turning out a ballad. You recognize the word corazon, but it autocorrects to a capital C. And then its Loud, which autocorrects to a lowercase l. [creepy music] The producer whispers something to the cameraman, who changes lenses and seems to focus on your cleavage, which is ample. Someone is trying to speak with Kamil, who nods and smiles and says he doesn’t understand Mexican, he is so sorry. The producer is sitting talking with someone brown and writing out a check, while quietly, stealthily, the quinceanera’s uncle, her de facto father, is being escorted off by security guards: he has gotten happily drunk and was dancing with everybody, even the camera man, and that is off limits.
Change: Move With The Cheese
[Laid back music] The producer tells you that Shu, who runs her own cosmetics line in Los Angeles, is a witch. Do you mean metaphorically? you ask. He glances at you sidelong, which you don’t like: that can be the look of death, the end of a career. You’re getting awfully curious, he says, adding for the blonde, as he walks off to glue together a portrait of Kamil that Shu is going to burn in a fire. It’s evening and the worker woman comes over with a new shirt that you are supposed to wear. It reveals the mole between your breasts. [somber music] Instead of Kamil, Kevin picks you up like you are dead weight and takes you over to a shallow pool, where you dance slowly as he apologizes to you, his eyes shadily darting hither and thither. You are just, outside I mean and probably inside, so beautiful! he shouts in a monotone. You are not supposed to have sex at all. The most you can do is make jokes about needing guidance to find the hole when assembling baby cribs. Still, it’s really adorable to see how much Kevin cares, and you tell him so. [gentle music] He apologizes again, so quietly, the hot stink of his breath entering your ear canal.
Enjoy Change! Savor The Adventure And Enjoy The Taste Of New Cheese!
You’re dying in your eyes, the producer orders you. He tells Angela to say this about you to the camera in an interview, or maybe to the cameraman. You practice dying in your eyes in front of a mirror, but looking at the delicious mint-green iris with its slice of chocolate cake makes it hard to think of dying. You just really love the giddy ephemera of your body! Kevin walks in with only a beflowered vest on and board shorts. [applause] You and I are going to be the worst parents, you say, as Kevin sticks his thumb in the bottom of a glass to scoop out the frozen margarita that remains there. I think they’d come out cute and giggling, he rejoins, leaning in for a hard, deep make out session. Your tongue, admittedly, is getting weary, and you worry you will be replaced. It takes a lot for a muscle to be a diva. Shu walks in with creepy eyes focused on Kevin. [creepy music] Do I look like a fucking witch? Call me a bitch, but not a witch, she says, poking him in the chest. You can’t make this stuff up, says Kamil, whose watching from behind a fronded pole. I can’t honestly say I know what a witch looks like, you say. The cameraman is watching you again. Someone appears out of nowhere and changes your top for one with beads that hang down from the seams.
Be Ready To Change Quickly And Enjoy It Again: They Keep Moving The Cheese.
[intriguing music] You look at the camera first confidently, then with weakening will and just then the red light goes on. I just, I honestly don’t know what I’m supposed to be feeling right now, you sob. Kevin said words like, like palapa, and, and mesa. I don’t even think I know who he is anymore. You wipe wetness from under your eyelid and your finger comes away black with mascara. The producer mouths the words along with you, though you were sure you felt them first. Does this process work? The camera zooms in on your eyes, minty with the chocolate slice. You blink out a tear and look off camera. [waves crashing gently] Someone is swirling their hand around in a bowl searching for the last popped kernel among the unpopped ones and grease. Someone else is pretending to read but is watching the television with the pursed lips of feigned disinterest. Courtney is such a drama queen, says the popcorn eater, sucking the grease from a hard kernel. Yes, says the reader, that’s how you make the most money. But you know that isn’t the case. You really did come here to find love. Anything can happen in paradise. [stirring, romantic music]
THICKETS
A draft consisting of various elements combining to form a possible whole, and which needs a fair amount of advice and guidance from the workshoppe.
By Saul A-A
It was eleven o’clock in the evening and on Schubert Street you could see about as well as an old lady in a sleep mask. Alphonse was sitting behind the wheel of his parked Chrysler Town and Country looking glum. Glum enough to make J. nervous. Alphonse had parked the van along a curve of street where there were no houses. They were in a Tory suburb of Boston, populated with that particular brand of Boston Brahmin that had the paranoia to install street lights but the egotism never to lock their windows. J. eyed Alphonse, but he wasn’t in the mood. He was heavier than a deep-fried Twinkie.
J. got out of the car. He circumnavigated the lighted eye of the street lamp and unrolled the nylon mask over his face. It smelled like a cheap date, but it put him in the zone. He could feel his breath on it. He found a place where the trees opened up, ducked in from the street, skirted the edge between a thicket and some short-cut grass, and pussyfooted through the shrubbery and up against the stone wall of two million dollars of real estate. He was regretting wearing the whitie tighties, and he was regretting all the Denny’s he’d consumed over the last few months. But that was the hand life had dealt him: short stacks and corn syrup. He stepped on his toes around buried orbs of prickly mondo grass. They pricked his calves, yes, and so inflamed his thoughts to the following staccato ruminations:
Alphonse. What a brute. He ought to be executed summarily.
Formalities aside, his mom keeps a knickknack store in Roxbury,
Where he was pedagogically raised by her in three things:
Piss, Vinegar and what’s the third? Malapropism.
He cuts new pants to make shorts.
I never did meet such an uncompromising malapropriation!
Let him eat brioche, then.
J. ducked beneath a lighted window and put his fingers on the sill, raising up his head inch by inch (though he was never much the gymnast), until his eyes beheld the illumined interior. What was inside was as follows:
(one) 19th century divan, Prussian blue, silk cover, embroidered in neo-Napoleanic floral fractals. It was on this very couch that, six years earlier, Stewart Rugg, current owner, tenant of the enclosure, and husband of Isabel Rugg, put his arm lazily about Sarah Bacon and was not rejected, beginning an affair that, unbeknownst to J., was being reconsummated in the upstairs bedroom at that very moment.
(two) mid-century modern birch and oak end tables, designed by Eero Saarinen, or so Isabel thought when she bought them from the creeper antiquer on Newbury Street as a 50th birthday gift for her Stew, but which, Stew immediately knew, were mediocre knockoffs (rather easy to fabricate). He decided not to tell her and instead kissed her on the mouth, and this somehow substituted for a truth which he felt offset the great lie of his affair with Sarah Bacon, begun earlier that year.
(one) rather blah Florence Knoll credenza in walnut and white veneer. Yes, it’s an authentic Knoll piece. Yes, it looks like it was in an office building for sixty years. Yes, it was in an office building for sixty years. Yes, it was Stewart Rugg’s office building. Yes, he did rescue it from the dumpster with the help of Robert Bacon’s Ford F-150. No, Stewart has never driven a pickup truck. Yes, he told certain acquaintances (not really friends, after all) that he had. How do you think that authentic Florence Knoll credenza got there?
(one) large Persian rug, which rug Rugg (Isabel, that is) purchased on a whim from a traveling rug dealer that had a rug booth at the state fair. He doesn’t come anymore, Isabel checked. Which is really too bad, because his rugs were nice, and he was rather handsome, or, that is, she enjoyed his always-smiling eyes. Her little secret, not much, really, just a little thing. Something about all those rugs. They smelled like romance.
(a bunch of) books. Mostly they are Isabel’s, and mostly she has not read them. Stewart has definitely not read them and is in fact glad to say so to friendly company, finding that in general the kind of wisdom he is interested in comes in the form of rump steak and baked potatoes. Isabel, at least, has memorized their titles. In particular she is fond of referencing the thing in Thomas Beckett where he writes the songs of the crickets with musical notation and when there are people over (and there are sometimes, though less these days), and it’s late summer and the crickets are at work, she mentions that thing in Thomas Beckett with the crickets and the musical notation and no one says, yes, Isabel, you’ve told us before, and by the way it’s Samuel Beckett, Thomas Beckett was an Archbishop of Canterbury a very long time ago.
(one) E. Howard mantle clock, 1934, with a scene of a sea battle painted on the inside of the glass door to the pendulum, but correctly viewed from the outside, so that whoever painted it had to paint it backwards, as it were, from the inside out, or maybe it was the outside in, or possibly front to back was the right thing to say. This was always a kind of miracle for Isabel who seemed to see the whole world alluded to in that reverse art-making, even the final revelation of human war and destruction with little puffs of smoke and sinking sea vessels. Yet she could never express that to Stew who, patient with her little fascinations, still made a point to listen now and again and say wow. The incommunicable nature of this phenomenon, and its relevance to both art and life (the only true realms of thought), deepened the mystery and when, for example, her sister had a stroke, she often returned to the clock for a reminder that something was hers and would only ever be hers since, apparently, she was incapable of sharing it with anybody else, even when she wanted to.
But J. did not know any of this, although certain things about the room did strike him as important at first sight. The richness of the décor, for example, was promising. The one glass of unfinished wine and one glass of finished wine, on the other hand, were not promising. Nor was the recessed lighting which was entirely inappropriate for the décor, but more to the point, was on. A cricket rubbed its wings together and then another and soon many, but J. had never read Beckett (Samuel or Thomas) and did not know about how he’d written a score for crickets and so J.’s world was a little dimmer for that.
J. made his way around the house, ducking at the windows and checking them with tentative fingers to see if they would open. Eventually, inevitably, one did and J., having lifted it and given one of those self-encouraging quick outbreaths through the nose that seems to convince people of their own readiness for important physical acts like diving off a diving board, heaved himself onto the sill, and very awkwardly kicked himself into the dark room. Judges averaged 4/10 for his performance.
? ? ? 
Upstairs, things were progressing as usual for Stewie and Sarah. Stewie found Sarah uncommonly attractive, which—he kept considering every time they met this way—was a real miracle considering they actually knew each other. Most women Stewie found uncommonly attractive he did not know. What were the chances that, after having known each other for going on 25 years, that is, since their children turned five and entered preschool and they occasionally met on the ways in and out of the little school room in the basement of the community center, what were the chances that his fantasy, something he felt he had perhaps dreamed up in the sweat of newly pubescent adolescence, would turn out to be right in front of him, someone he had known for oh so long? The stupidity of it was brilliant. He had shed the cobwebs from his eyes at last. He did not know nor did he care whether the human mind crafted ideas out of experience or whether all ideas were already known, and experience was used to confirm or reject them. The whole Sarah thing was nothing short of confirmation of Stew’s own perfect place in the world, the shining I-ness of his somewhat portly figure, his (admittedly) irrational attitudes toward Germans, his love of rump steak, and the incision of his advice to his newly married nephew that the square of the number of miles between you and your wife corresponded exactly to your happiness. His nephew, though, had said unlaughingly on what scale? To which Stewie had responded wittily, exactly, and winked, though now he was not so sure what he had meant by it. Nevertheless, he was the finest shining rump steak cut from the mighty body of God’s creations.
Tonight, he felt, was going particularly swimmingly. He had had neither too much wine, so that his heart burn kicked in and caused him to be constantly swallowing small acidic upheavings, nor too little, so that that feeling of the color gray seemed to pervade everything. No, his legs felt particularly ungouty, his muscles pleasantly tingly and firm, and his toes looked to him (for he had removed his socks and, sitting on the bed, was wiggling his toes on the plush carpet) like funny little one-eyed people waving hello especially to him.
Earlier Sarah, who believed herself, privately that is, to be verging on some spiritual experience of cultural significance, wrote the following pages in her diary, under the influence of, she thought probably, the spirit of Victorian poet Margaret Veley:
This morning I wandered through the thicket there behind the house in search of jack-in-the-pulpits which begin to hide their little preachers just this time of year. I mouthed the sound of “thicket” and from my path a squirrel ran and caught in a raspberry tangle. Its glassy eye was smoky with fear, solid and unweathered. A coincidence I think not, because this thought right then had been occurring: that language had been made not to track stores of grain and olives but to utter the name of “thicket.” I mean that the squirrel eye, the dark roving impenetrable thing, as it stared out from this thicket with fear was being made anew, being sounded out by fear of me. That I am a thing to fear! What a lark, which is really a bird. I assert myself: tonight with S. I need him to know that I will not be sounded out with fear, it isn’t inborn to me. The eye is inborn to me, but it will be sounded out with I, not him.
The scene is the upstairs bedroom of a large “McMansion” in a suburb of Boston. A canopy bed that does honor to Renaissance feudalism but manages nevertheless to inspire only James Dean-like existential apathy is in the middle of the room. The room is carpeted in a color reminiscent of dehydration. An elaborate vanity that looks like Mark McGuire in 1998 is against one wall. A painting of Stewart “Junior” Ruggs at age five looming not unlike the holographic face of Darth Sidious hangs above the bed. If the room could be described in one word, it would be two words. An open door leads to an unseen bathroom.
STEWART RUGG [sitting on the bed, staring at his toes]: Junior’s thinking of getting married, the idiot.
SARAH BACON [from the bathroom, whose door is open]: To that woman whose name you won’t tell me?
STEW: I don’t like her. She’s always put it like this or it would be better like that. You know and she has a kid already and the kid’s five years old and Isabel won’t let up about the kid and everything it does is so charming even though it has no neck and acts like a little slut. [laugh track] It’s really sad. But Isabel’s always wanted grandkids and this woman’s a shortcut after all and who even knows if Junior’s fertile anyway, likelier than not, not. [laugh track]
SARAH [emerging from the bathroom, showing off earrings she has put on, posing]: What do you think?
STEW: You know what I think: very little.
SARAH [disappointed]: You’re a nightmare, Stew, you really are. [laugh track]
STEW: And do you know what else? I’m thinking that Junior’s woman is already marking out our graves, me and Isabel’s. I saw her opening all the drawers in the living room and fingering the silver like it was hers already. I’m not being paranoid, I’ve seen that look on women’s faces before. It’s schemy.
SARAH: Maybe she thought the silver looked good.
STEW: My ass looks better than Isabel’s mother’s Empire French silverware. [laugh track]
SARAH [sitting on the bed next to him]: I can say with certainty that that is not true. [laugh track] But taste is subjective, so maybe I’m wrong.
STEW [pinching her butt]: Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.
There is an awkward silence.
SARAH: Stew, don’t you get tired sometimes?
STEW: What, why would you say that?
SARAH [rolling her eyes]: I’m asking for a friend.
STEW: It isn’t sexy. And of course not, I don’t get tired sometimes. I’m only fifty-six.
SARAH: What I mean is, this morning I was walking in the woods, and, well no, that’s not how to say it. I mean don’t you ever just get sick of [she gestures with both hands toward her body] this?
STEW [angrily, expecting her to turn the idea back on him]: No, I can’t say that I do. 
SARAH: Well I do. When we first started this whole… thing… this affair, you know, I thought that it would give new meaning to… the MEness. I thought it would elevate me like it always does in the fairy tales, Guinevere, Lancelot. You know how pain can make you cry? Well whatever is the opposite of that, that’s what I wanted.
STEW: Oh my god, you’ve been using me.
SARAH: No, I thought we could do this, love making.
STEW: No, it all makes sense.
SARAH: It doesn’t, it doesn’t at all. You’re just saying that. I haven’t given you any keys. Stew, look at me.
STEW [staring at his toes]: I can’t. I don’t believe this. Here I was feeling like I’d achieved something. It took me what, forty-one years of marriage to realize that I had more love than could be consumed – that’s right, eaten up – by one person. Isabel eats like a bird, anyway! She’s wasting away. All those years I thought I had the bull by the horns, was breaking even, was even winning. But then I saw the truth – marriage was a vacuum, a big ugly Hoover vacuum. [laugh track] And I thought you were the answer. But you were just eating it all up too.
SARAH: You’re just hungry. [laugh track] What I’m trying to say is I saw a squirrel this morning, caught in a raspberry bush, and I saw its eye. Its eye was solid black, and yet seemed to be filled with something, fear I think. What I thought was: this eye is the way we are when we are born. And then one thing happens, you get married, you have kids, and the eye is worn away, etched and chipped away until it reveals something, something that’s really you. And it’s an ugly thing, but it’s you. And what I’m saying is that I want to celebrate that.
STEW: You want to celebrate an old rotting squirrel eye? [laugh track]
SARAH: Yes.
STEW: I really don’t know what you’re talking about. I think you’re saying I’m old and worn away, my hair is thinning. But I’ve got so much love [pats belly with both hands], more than ever, I think, more than…
SARAH: Can be eaten by one person?
STEW: Yes. And more than fits under my belt.
SARAH [shaking her head]: I think you’re hungry. [laugh track]
STEW: You’re right, let’s forget this and go make a sandwich. [incidental music]
? ? ? 
WHAT’S GOING TO HAPPEN? WILL J. BE ABLE TO ACCOMPLISH HIS MISSION OF STEALING AN ARBITRARY VALUABLE OBJECT IN ORDER TO IMPRESS HIS FRIENDS AND FILL THE MEANINGLESS VOID ENCIRCLING HIS HEART? OR WILL HE ENCOUNTER STEW AND SARAH MAKING A SANDWICH? WILL ISABEL COME HOME UNEXPECTEDLY AND GET RATHER PEEVED, OR WILL STEW AND SARAH BE ABLE TO EVADE HER PRYING QUESTIONS? WHO WILL BE HIDING IN WHICH CLOSET? WILL A KITCHEN KNIFE BE INVOLVED? ARE MORAL FACTS POSSIBLE, WHAT DO THEY CONSIST IN, AND HOW DO WE COME TO KNOW THEM? WILL SARAH GET STABBED IN HER STOMACH BY A REALLY RATHER TERRIFIED J.? WILL SHE REVEAL THE AFFAIR TO ISABEL WHILE PERISHING ON THE KITCHEN FLOOR? WILL ISABEL EVEN CARE, SINCE SHE WAS HAVING AN AFFAIR ANYWAY WITH ROBERT BACON? WILL THEY SWITCH PARTNERS AND LIVE HAPPILY BUT STILL FAIRLY AWKWARDLY EVER AFTER, NEVER REALLY ABLE TO COMMUNICATE THEIR PRIVATE TRUTHS?
Theodore Prum is at work. That is, he is frowning aggressively at a small Bolshevik clown that seems to have invaded his computer screen. The clown has frazzled yellow hair and a black velveteen lounge coat with white piping. It is dancing a repetitive polka pattern as it floats around on top of his desktop. He is not able to click past it, nor does he have any clues as to how to “x” it out or what it is doing there or how it came to be dancing. This, coupled with an eternal bloating feeling his doctors assure him is only indigestion, creates a state of mental blockage.
He hears a knock on the door and the floor-to-ceiling oak swings noiselessly open and a black patent leather shoe appears on the carpet. Silently, the rest of the slim body emerges. Prum’s frown deepens. He does not like being disturbed while he is working, and he especially is unfond of his son-in-law Adam Nurfer.
“Sir,” says Adam Nurfer, going on to his tippie toes and saying “ahem” and then folding his hands together in front of his flat trim abs and then going on to his tippie toes again. “There is, aha, a how do you say sir, situation.” Adam Nurfer purses his lips and wrinkles up his eyes, in an apparent attempt at a smile. Prum looks between the Bolshevik clown and Nurfer, unclear which of the two is causing his indigestion to act up. As though in sympathy, Adam Nurfer shuts his eyes and nods his head knowingly. “Nyaluminate B,” he says. Prum snorts.
“Nyaluminate B,” Prum says. He puts his hands palms-up on the table and shrugs his shoulders. “And?”
“Sir it’s the primary flavoring agent in our SnaxALot line of Potato-Inspired Crunchers,” says Adam Nurfer, twisting his zirconium wedding ring around on his finger.
“And the Pope shits in the woods,” says Prum, opening a drawer in his pink marble top desk and taking out a family-size bottle of Ultra-Strength Assorted Berry Tums. “Tell me something, Nurfer,” he says, shaking five multicolored disks into his hand. “You think my daughter’s sexy?”
“Your, your daughter, sir?” Nurfer stutters. A cool bead of sweat is rolling its way from his scrotum down his inner thigh.
“Yeah,” says Prum, counting the tablets in his palm. “You know, the one you’re married to.”
“Ah,” laughs Nurfer, “the one I’m married to.” He takes a deep breath, relieved. Prum has another daughter, whom Nurfer had not met until his wedding night. She is 6’ 2”, and whenever Nurfer sees her, he can’t stop blinking and sneezing. He has never met more of a woman in his life. “Y-yes, I suppose I do,” he says, nodding assent.
“You do what?” says Prum.
“I, I do find your daughter, erm, sexy?” says Nurfer. He has never admitted that to anyone, even himself. It tastes good in his mouth. He licks his lips.
“Then why don’t you quit pussyfooting around here and go get busy,” shouts Prum, “I’m trying to work.” He tosses the five Assorted Berry tablets into his mouth, grimaces, and begins to slowly chew. Adam Nurfer nods, salutes, and turns to go back out the door. He is almost through when he recalls with a pang why it was he came. He turns and peers around the still open door. Prum is staring at his computer and chewing slowly, his jowls wobbling.
“Sir?” says Nurfer, in his meekest voice.
“What?” says Prum, poking at his screen with an orange finger. “Didn’t I tell you to go get busy?”
“Yes, but, Nyaluminate B, sir. It’s just that it’s all over the news. I mean, CNN, the New York Times, not real news of course, but still…” he trails off. Prum lifts his eyes over the top of the screen and fixes them on Nurfer’s head, which is poking out from behind the door. Prum blinks. “There’s been a study linking it to, ahem, infertility from, aha, Gonorrhea,” says Nurfer, as quickly and clearly as he can. He stares at the pattern in the carpet for a moment, smiles at the floor, and begins to back out of the room.
Prum rubs his temples. “The last I heard about Gonorrhea my health teacher was putting a condom on a banana. I thought that was an STD, Nurfer,” he says.
“Yes, sir, generally speaking, sir, it’s an STD,” comes Nurfer’s voice from behind the open door.
“So you’re telling me people eating our SnaxALot line of Potato-Inspired Crunchers are getting STDs? What the hell are they doing with those things?” Prum makes a face.
“That’s what CNN is saying, sir,” comes Nurfer’s quietly receding voice, “and the New York Times.”
“And how do we know these homosexuals aren’t just barebacking?” shouts Prum. His head begins to throb. The door clicks closed and a little voice can be heard from outside but the heavy oak paneling of Prum’s office obscures any meaning. The Bolshevik clown dances around on his computer. Prum stands, brushes off the sleeves of his suit jacket, and heaves the laptop across the room with a grunt. It thumps into an oil painting of his father, former CEO of Tilla Enterprises, and crashes to the floor. A piece of the canvas has been torn away, and where the company motto once was remains the phrase: “At Tilla’s we … eat your heart out.”
***
A voice whispers into Prum’s left ear canal.
“It’s a big chance for Tilla, sir, if you don’t mind me saying. Any media coverage is good media coverage, as you always say. You can slip in a word about Cheeze Tubez, new flavor coming out at the end of the month – Poblano Passion, sir.”
Prum shakes his head. Into his right ear canal, another voice is whispering.
“You need to set them straight, those bastards. Did you hear what Rob Roberts said at his emergency press conference this morning?” Rob Roberts is the CEO of competing snack company Nacho Mama’s Chipz. “He said you were a wrinkled Priapus, an impotent imposter, and a legendary glutton. I don’t think your father would have taken that sitting down.” The voice, reedy and apoplectic, is that of Tilla Enterprises Vice President for Corporate Autonomy Ben Stevens. The spotlights snap the room into perma-noon, illuminating a shining layer of sweat on Prum’s forehead and the sides of his nose They are in the briefing room, one half of which is clad in faux marble. Beneath the picture of Leonard Prum, which has been carefully brought in from Prum’s office, two crossed American flags have been arranged to cover the tear. In front of this set, Prum is seated at a very wide wooden psychiatrist’s desk which was once his fathers, and whose edges extend beyond the view of the camera, set up to face the desk. A few bags of Poblano Passion Cheeze Tubez are arranged about the surface. As Adam Nurfer blinks and his eyes adjust to the brightness, Mattie Prum bangs her forehead on the top of the doorframe leading into the room from behind the camera. Adam Nurfer blinks some more, scrunches his nose, and sneezes into Prum’s ear.
“Ready, Mr. Prum?” says the camera man. Prum shoves Nurfer in the face, pulls his handkerchief from his jacket pocket, and rubs it in his left ear.
“Get this loony off my stage,” he says, throwing the orange handkerchief, embroidered with miniature tortilla chips, after Nurfer’s receding back. Nurfer tiptoes away and blends into the shadow in the corner of the room behind the camera. “Okay, let’s roll,” Prum says.
***
Weird Simms pats the unopened bag of ‘Zola Monster Ziggurats beside him on the couch. It’s the last bag from the stash he collected on the 2-4-1 sale at Walmart on January 24th. Oh, how he loves corporate punning. The bag feels stiff and full of air, a good sign for the wellbeing of the perfect pyramidal liquid-cheese-filled joys that await him inside. Delicate, yet delectable. He pokes at the remote control with a cucumbrous finger and waves his hands in front of his face. With a shower of static, the old box television blinks to life. It never ceases to be a miracle. Weird settles back into the old blue couch which welcomes his familiar shape into its cushions. He pats its armrest affectionately. He sets the Family Size bag between his legs, and with surgical precision, pulls apart the sealed top. The bouquet of toasted corn and gorgonzola rises to meet his nose. He closes his eyes for further ruminations on the flavor, when the sound on the TV finally crackles into existence.
“Snackers around the country are crunching for more information after a CNN report this morning revealed a link between Tilla Enterprise’s proprietary flavoring ingredient Nyaluminate B and increased infertility in both men and women. The president of the company, Theodore Prum, son of the founder Leonard Prum, is issuing a press statement momentarily. OK, he’s taking the podium. We’re going live to the Briefing Room at Tilla Enterprises.”
Weird Simms slowly opens his eyes, as though an earthquake had hit and he was afraid to see the damage. The image on the screen focuses on the cheesy face of Theodore Prum. His pink mouth is rapidly switching between a smile and a frown, his jowls are dancing. He’s patting his hands on the desk and rolling his eyes around in his head. He resembles a toy Weird Simms had as a child, one that performed those same actions and had the same annatto-colored skin tone, and which Weird and his brother Sam-O buried in their backyard, naturally assuming it was possessed by moon aliens.
“We’re rolling, sir,” says an off-screen voice.
“Why didn’t someone tell me God damn it,” Prum says, backhanding a bag of Cheeze Tubez off the desk. Prum clears his throat and his face becomes macabre. He sniffs.
“Well folks,” says Prum, opening his hands in a gesture of offering to public. Weird’s heart quivers in his chest. “We all saw some interesting news today, sad news from our friends, our friends at CNN. But no, believe me, they are not your friends, not today. They’re trying to pull a fast one on you. Listen, people have been eating Tilla chips since the 1970s. That’s a long time ago, no one really knows how long ago the ‘70s was. But it was a long time ago and they were eating Tilla chips even back then. 
I’m laying out solitaire at the kitchen table when Dad-guy slams into the room like a really successful hangover.
“Brisket and potatoes and nothing else,” he says, stumbling into a chair and kicking off two slaggy boots. Momma stoops over to pick them up and Dad-guy backhands her in the rear. Dad-guy’s got a lazy anything-goes slicked over his face, but I don’t let him know I know and I put an ace of spades up.
“There’s chicken and baked beans,” says Momma, tipping a plate full of it in front of him. Dad-guy stares at it for a minute like it’s frog or camel or some other total inadequacy, same way he looks at me nine times out of ten, but he picks up the fork nonetheless, bends into the steaming plate and shovels a bit into his mouth. His cheeks are blowfished, and he turns up his jaunty black eyes to me.
“Not ‘ungry, thkinny?” he says.
I’m done being embarrassed and so I say, “Momma and Auntie and me ate at eleven,” which is true. Dad-guy doesn’t like that and he slowly lets the chewed mess ooze back onto the plate where it’s in a pile like cat food.
“Oh dear!” says Momma, grimacing bawdily. Now Auntie comes in braless, her hair’s a witchy sort of dyed red, she’s carrying a little bag and she pats Dad-guy on the stubble and sits down between us. She eyes the chewed food, eyes Momma, eyes Dad-guy. Dad-guy’s turning red above the stubble and below the eyes.
“Queenly,” says Momma, and snorts, rubbing down the counter with a towel.
“It’s OK,” says Auntie, “I’ve seen worse, oh have I seen worse. Rob barfed a bowlful of godly raisin bran right back out into my morning coffee once.” Rob’s this husband Auntie had before she moved in with us last month, and now he’s living in a sort of Ecovillage in the Upper East Side. I can tell Dad-guy’s got a real blockage in his mind, which is causing sweat to seep out of his forehead. Auntie’s putting her noxious light eyes on him, wet and big and really almost blue and it’s awfully clear to me she’s toeing his hairy calf under the table.
I’ve got all four aces up and a couple of twos.
“If I did that you’d kick me out of the house,” I say.
“We sure would,” says Dad-guy while Momma says, “Oh honey I don’t think so,” as she drops the empty Bush’s can into the garbage. “We need you for something around the house.”
“So Rob’s gone Hindu?” I say to Auntie, putting up the three four five of diamonds. 
“Mikey!” says Momma.
“He’s not an Arab,” says Auntie. “His mom’s Italian Catholic and he’s a Catholic too. Chilemmi, that sound like an Arab name to you?”
“I thought he went Eastern,” I say. Truth is I’m not stupid, and I’ve got a fair handle on world religion, but I’d really like to know where all of this is going.
“God is God is God,” says Momma. Somehow that sets off Dad-guy’s striking train and you can hear the gears of his teeth whirring.
“And I suppose a chicken is a brisket is a Christmas ham,” he says, baring his clean white teeth.
“Auntie won’t eat ham anymore,” I say.
“Unclean,” says Auntie, pucking a bottle cap on the table between her two pointer fingers.
“And a table,” Dad-guy says smacking the table, “is a chair,” he says, smacking the arm of his chair, “is a goddamned ceiling fan,” he says, waving his hand wildly above him in the air.
“OK Sheldon,” says Momma, turning to him with those green rubber washing gloves on and a half-clean pot in one hand, sink running. “You’re halfway up the mountain. Turn around and look at the view. You rent a two-bedroom in Queens at $1150 a month, which is two-thirds what you bring in. You’ve got a grown son who can’t keep a job to save his life, a wife who’s too anxious to leave the house for a loaf of bread, and now you’ve got a sister-in-law with a Hari-Hari drunk for a husband and who herself eats chemicals like a processing plant. So yes, I’d say from where you’re standing, a table is a chair is a goddamned ceiling fan.” She turns back to the sink and scrubs at the burnt stuff on the pot.
I lay up the two of clubs and the three of hearts. Auntie’s picking at a tooth gap with a fork and Dad-guy’s staring into the eight-ball of his baked beans.
“Not ‘ungry, thkinny?” I say to him.
“Don’t treat your father like that,” says Auntie, backhanding me in the shoulder.
“And why not?” I say.
“It’s appalling,” she says, and looks me in the eyes with hers. “AP-PALL-ING” she emphasizes.
“Shut up?” explains Dad-guy.
“If it’s all the same to you, I’m leaving,” I say, putting up the four five six of hearts. I think everyone’s in a funk but me. Auntie resumes combing Dad-guy’s shin with a corvette-red toenail.
“Ow,” says Dad-guy, flinching his leg away.
“Are you hurt?” coos Momma.
“Very much,” says Dad-guy.
“Where?” says Momma.
“Stop that,” Dad-guy says to Auntie, pointing at his heart with one fat finger.
“I was trying to care,” says Momma. Dad-guy rubs the bridge of his nose, his temples, and the back of his neck.
“Let’s start over,” he says. He gets up and goes to the door, at which point he wheels around, sticks out his arm, points a finger at the plate of food with the chewed food in a pile on one side, and says, “Great, chicken and baked beans! I love that!” He trods over, pulls out his chair, sits spread-legged and scoops heartily a dripping forkful of beans into his open mouth.
“Don’t mock me,” says Momma, deadpan.
“You’re a real drag,” says Auntie to her, trying to unscrew the lid from a bottle of vanilla extract. “If it wasn’t for you, Shelly and I’d be crammed in a Ford pickup listening to Led Zeppelin on our way back to Calee-fornia.” I reach over and open the bottle for Auntie, who’s tossed it onto the table in desperation.
“I wouldn’t want to go anywhere,” says Dad-guy, pushing his plate away.
“Oh, I’d go anywhere,” says Momma.
“Cunt,” whispers Auntie conspiratorially. She sniffs the vanilla, grimaces, and puts it back on the table, still open. I put up the two of spades.
“I have to confess something,” I say.
“Do we look Catholic?” interrupts Momma. No one says anything for an interlude. “Our people didn’t suffer in the shtetl for any confessing to be taking place.”
“If it wasn’t for her,” Auntie says to me, thumbing at Momma, “Shelly and I’d be growing maree-wana in the hills of Oregon.”
“That bad?” I offer. Auntie glares at me, puts the vanilla to her nose again, wiggles her nose in distaste, and tastes a bit of the stuff.
“Terrible!” she says.
“Should we start over?” says Dad-guy, looking longingly at Auntie. “I’d like to try again.”
“Ha, you’re too old,” says Momma. “Anyway we have a two bedroom flat in Queens for $1150 a month. That’s half as bad as some people, but twice as good as most.”
“But no brisket,” says Dad-guy.
“You don’t hear me complaining,” I say.
“You’ve never known anything better,” Dad-guy says. I can’t really argue with that, though I’ve had a taste or two of whiskey before that killed enough brain-matter for a lifetime of entertainment. Momma starts rummaging around in the cupboard below the counter and making all kinds of noise.
“My cast iron!” she says. “I can’t find the twelve-inch cast iron. That was all my inheritance and now it’s missing. Stolen most likely.”
“Your mother never cooked a day in her life,” says Dad-guy.
“Not true,” says Momma.
“There was that once,” says Auntie.
“Ah yes,” says Dad-guy. “I’ll never forget that once.” There’s another interlude of silence, even Momma stops the banging. Then Dad-guy and Auntie burst into laughter and Auntie really takes a sip of the vanilla this time. Momma starts at the pots-n-pans symphony again.
“Where’s the damn thing?” she shouts.
“You gave it away some years ago,” says Dad-guy. The rummaging ceases and Momma stands up like a ghost.
“That’s not possible,” she says. I put up the six seven of diamonds and the seven of hearts. “You’re just getting sentimental.”
“Yes, to old Mrs. Finching, poor lady,” says Dad-guy. “She never had enough to eat and not even a stove to cook on.” He puts his head in his hands.
“She lived like a monk,” says Auntie, crossing herself.
“A saint,” I say.
“Yes,” says Dad-guy, “and even to the last she refused to give me back the hammer I lent her for smashing roaches.”
“There’s not much dignity like that left,” says Auntie, fingering the vanilla bottle.
“Ok well,” says Momma, “I’ll have to find something else then.”
“Good,” says Dad-guy.
“Good,” says Auntie.
“Fine,” I say.
“Anything else, really,” says Momma.
“Are there any criteria?” says Auntie.
“For what?” says Momma.
“How should I know, you’re the one who’s looking,” says Auntie.
“Oh in that case,” says Momma. “Preferably six feet at least, a crippling disorder of some kind, hopefully physical though mental would do, and cash coming out of his ears. No beards need apply.”
“That’s the spirit!” I say, putting up the eight nine of hearts and the three four of spades. “You tell ‘em.”
“Ha-ha,” says Dad-guy rolling his eyes.
“That’s it?” says Momma.
“That’s all I’m allowed. Spanking’s out of the question entirely.”
“That’s very true,” says Momma, and she whistles a little tune while she goes back to rummaging. I can hear the old crispy hairs along Dad-guy’s tibia scraping against the ball of Auntie’s foot.
“I want to get back to the criteria,” opines Auntie. “I was enjoying that. No one’s ever told me shit about the criteria.”
“For a start, you could wear a bra,” I suggest.
“It’s not the old days anymore,” says Dad-guy, picking a piece of chicken skin from his plate. He samples it between his front teeth.
“What day is it anyway?” says Auntie.
“That’s what I was going to confess,” I say, putting up the three four five of clubs.
“No confessing,” says Momma.
“Still I feel like I could really get something done if someone told me the rules. Smacked me around a little,” says Auntie.
“Oh, I could probably remember how,” says Dad-guy, swallowing the skin.
“Oh no you couldn’t,” says Momma.
“I could,” Dad-guy mouths largely to me.
“Well that might help,” says Auntie, “but I’d really like a whole roomful of people.”
“That’s more difficult,” concedes Dad-guy.
“Not impossible,” I offer.
“True,” says Dad-guy.
“You really think so?” says Auntie. Her eyes have a shine of genuine hope.
“Not impossible, I think,” I repeat. “Look at the polls.”
“That’s a relief,” says Auntie, sighing and staring glumly at the empty bottle of vanilla extract. “The polls never lie.”
There’s another intermission in the conversation.
“So anyway,” says Auntie.
“Yes,” says Dad-guy.
“I’ve got it!” shouts Momma, “I’ve got it, I’ve got it!”
“Measles?” says Dad-guy, lifting up his head to her.
“Mumps?” says Auntie, lifting up her head too.
“Oh please,” I say. “HIV,” I mouth largely and slowly to them. Momma comes up from under the counter bearing a big cast iron skillet.
“Safta’s skillet!” she says.
“I don’t think that’s the one,” says Dad-guy.
“Didn’t it have a rounder handle?” says Auntie.
“I remember it being bigger, at least an inch bigger in diameter,” says Dad-guy.
“That’s OK,” says Momma, “this one will do.” She brings it wide to her side with two hands and swings it around in front of her, colliding with the back of Dad-guy’s head in the process.
“Umph,” he says, and his head pendulates forward and bounces off the table and then lands again on the table and stays there.
“What?” says Auntie.
“He always loved you more,” says Momma.
“Past tense already?” I say.
“He only ever wanted my money,” says Auntie.
“Ha-ha,” says Momma, rolling her eyes.
“Now I have to grow up without a father,” I say.
“That’s not true,” says Momma, “you’re already pretty well grown.” I stick my head out and frown at her. Auntie’s grimace turns into a weep, accompanied by a sort of high “wheeee” noise.
“What’s the matter?” says Momma, gesturing with the big pan.
“Put that down,” I say. She stands there. “Please?” I ask. She puts the pot on the counter.
“Now you’re all I’ve got,” says Auntie, turning to me.
“Hello,” says Momma.
“Not after what you did,” says Auntie to her. “You destroyed my future.”
“Bah,” says Momma.
“What are we going to do now?” I ask.
“Why, what would you recommend?” says Momma. “You’re a grown man, do something.” A sound like “unh” comes out from Dad-guy’s face.
“He isn’t dead then?” says Auntie.
“Son of a bitch can’t even die right,” says Momma, going back for the pan.
“Life!” says Auntie. “I’ll never wear a bra again. We can move to Calee-fornia and grow Maree-wana!”
“I think I’d be better off if I left,” I say, putting up the ten jack queen of hearts.
“Unh unh” says Dad-guy’s face.
“What’s he saying,” says Auntie, bringing her left ear up close to his mouth.
“It’s always about what he’s saying,” says Momma, cradling the cast iron like a baby.
“That seems accurate,” I say.
“Unh unh,” says Dad-guy’s face again.
“He says fuck you,” says Auntie to Momma.
“I wish he would,” says Momma.
“Listen,” I say, putting up the six seven of clubs.
“I’m always already trying,” says Momma.
“I’m going to say it,” I say.
“Quick, nobody stop him,” says Auntie, deadpan.
“It’s Saturday,” I say. There’s a pause and then the kitchen is like a disturbed nest of ants. Momma drops the pot on the floor. Auntie tries to shake another drop of vanilla extract out of the bottle onto her tongue. Dad-guy says “unh.” Momma starts rushing around the room, moving things to other places and straightening a towel. She comes over to Dad-guy and tries to lift his head, which slips through her fingers and bounces off the table again.
“Get him up get him up!” she says, then turns to me with her rage-face on. “Why didn’t you tell us!” she shouts.
“I tried,” I say, shrugging. “You wouldn’t listen.”
“He tried,” mocks Momma, “I wouldn’t listen.” Auntie is slapping the side of Dad-guy’s face at first lightly and then harder.
“Wake the fuck up!” she says, pummeling him with genuine ferocity.
“Why didn’t anybody tell me it was Saturday?” says Momma, standing in the middle of the room and looking rather desolate.
“And,” I say, “it’s eleven fifty-three.” Auntie starts wailing and banging her forehead on the table. Momma comes over and tries to balance Dad-guy’s head on his neck, which keeps rolling off to one side or the other. I put up the eight nine of clubs.
“Wait,” says Auntie, sitting up all of a sudden and soberly looking at the window curtain above the sink. “I forget what happens on Saturday.”
“Oh, everything,” says Momma.
“That and tomorrow’s the first day of the next week,” I say, putting up the five six of spades.
“That’s it?” says Auntie, pulling a second bottle of vanilla extract out from her little bag. “I thought it was far worse.”
“Well,” says Momma, “if it’s just that I guess I don’t have to worry about lunch.” She picks the cast iron up from the floor and puts it in the back of the cupboard. I put up the ten jack of clubs, but find I’m stuck and the game is over. 
“Damn,” I say.
The bell rings, Momma opens the door and the rabbi walks in. He’s got on a rather slick looking blue suit and a red tie with bowling pins all over it.
“Shit,” says Momma. “I knew something was happening on Saturday.” He looks around, a little dazed. Then his eyes find the table, he sticks out his arm, points a finger at the plate of food with Dad-guy’s chewed food in a pile on one side, and says, “Great, chicken and baked beans! I love that!”
“Oy,” says
Content Warning: I wanted to let you know about some things to be aware of if you’re going to read this story. There’s this gory birth that occurs. The story is not historical fiction. You do not have to squeeze the rock, the eternal viewer, and force it to tell you its secrets in order to know that all moments of violence are constantly occurring. However, this story contains some scenes – not really flashbacks, just things that happened before the present – that occur in a shtetl of eastern Poland. A shtetl is not a mythology. Some of them were peopled by wide-brimmed fedora-wearing Lubavitch Jews who really did like to talk about very little besides the Talmud. There is an interesting joke about the Talmud. A curious philosophically minded American Jew decides that, in order to understand his identity, he should understand the Talmud. So he goes and visits the most renowned Talmudist in the United States of America, telling him he would like to study the Talmud. The Rabbi, naturally old and with a long beard white as parchment, tells him that it is all well and good for him to want to study the Talmud, but does he understand Jewish Logic? The curious American Jew has read Derrida, Žižek, and Lyotard, so he says, Go ahead, try me.
“So here is the question,” says the old man, running three fingers through his beard. “Two chimney sweeps go down a chimney. When they emerge, one has a dirty face and one has a clean face. Which one washes his face?”
“Obviously,” says the curious American Jew, “the one with the dirty face.”
“Wrong,” says the old man, raising a crooked finger in the air. “The one with the clean face looks at his companion, sees a dirty face, and thinks his must also be dirty. So the one with the clean face washes.”
“Fine,” says the curious American Jew. “So that is Jewish logic?”
“No,” sighs the old man. “Here is another question. Two chimney sweeps go down a chimney. When they emerge, one has a dirty face, one has a clean face. Which one washes his face?”
The curious American Jew is already growing weary of this old man, his yellow skin. “It’s just what you said, the one with the clean face washes.”
“Wrong,” says the old man, holding up two fingers. “The one with the dirty face observes his companion looking at him and making ready to wash his face. “Aha,” he thinks. “He must see a dirty face, and it’s mine.” And so the one with the dirty face washes.”
The curious American Jew is getting frustrated. He taps his foot. “Fine,” he says. “So that is Jewish logic.”
“No,” says the old man. “Here is a question. Two chimney sweeps go down a chimney. When they emerge, one has a dirty face, one has a clean face. Which one washes?”
The curious American Jew rolls his eyes. “The one with the dirty face washes, just as I thought in the beginning, but presumably for some other reason.”
The old man holds up three knotted fingers. “Wrong,” he says. “If two men go down a chimney, how can only one have a dirty face? Go and study. When you know Jewish Logic, come back.”
But I got distracted. I was trying to lay the scene for this gory birth by saying how most shtetls were dirty little close places where the rich (relatively) fought with the poor (by any standards). Some shtetls had industries, like sewing uniforms for the Russian Army. As a way of saying thanks, the Russian Army conscripted any unmarried Jewish boys over the age of twelve and tortured them until they either converted or died. If they lived, they were forced to serve the Tsar for 35 years, after which they were returned to their villages and dubbed “Nicholas’ Soldiers.” No one wanted their children to marry one of Nicholas’ Soldiers, devoid of Jewish knowledge, demented by years of labor and war. They were no longer Jewish or really people. At least they had gotten their uniforms for free.
Other shtetls were little villages which, unlike the towns of England and Germany, really had very little to do with what we like to call traditional culture. Nationalism, never mind cultural identity, hadn’t been invented for the Jews yet, thank God.
We curious American Jews love to romanticize the shtetls, mythologize, long for a homeland, as if the Russian ghetto known as the Pale of Settlement could substitute for a homeland. As if the very idea of a homeland didn’t sit like a rock in the stomach. As if the nation-state were the final outcome of a teleologically moral history, rather than the petrification of a system designed to keep people like Jews out. And as if the joy of being Jewish weren’t that, when I’m wondering what’s making me anxious, the answer is almost always that flags of any sort make me worried, that national holidays are pogroms waiting to happen (or vice versa), and that small-town life gathers people up into the slingshot of God only to launch them furiously at some clever target. Our God is not even vengeful. Our God is a God of Jewish Logic. Our God will strike you down no matter whether your face is clean or dirty or both. So God Bless America, mother fuckers.
Anyhow, a baby, who is the narrator of this story’s great-great aunt, is born in one of these non-hamlets to a fifty-year old woman. It is not a miracle. The woman (the narrator’s great-great grandmother) has a tumor in her left mammary. The Jews from the Pale of Settlement, like the curious American Jew, valued education beyond almost anything else (not being slaughtered en masse by Cossacks notwithstanding). But as you can see, the kind of education they valued was of a rather esoteric type having mostly to do with chimney sweeps. If women were lucky, they would get to be the footstools of their epigrammatic husbands when the messiah came. Yet it seemed right to have a doctor in the shtetl, although in this case perhaps it was not a great idea. This particular doctor, who was also in charge of making sure the streets did not become too rutted with streams of water, was very fond of brisket, the cheapest cut of meat, which was required to be cooked to near dissolution before becoming edible. Yet it was very good, he liked how it came apart in little stratified fragments held together by strings of fine sinew. (“Light as a feather,” as the father of the curious American Jew likes to say.) This doctor, thinking of brisket, felt the tumor in the woman’s left breast, and he prescribed what was, to the best of his knowledge, an adequate cure: she should get pregnant.
Somehow it worked. You see? Jewish Logic. What I mean is somehow she, although she was nearing what in the shtetl was considered elderliness, managed to get pregnant. I do not know the marvelous details of the conception, though if I did, certainly a further content warning would be necessary. And, indeed, it stopped the cancer from killing her. Instead the baby, clawing for freedom, broke the woman open on its way out and ended her life. Both a dirty-faced and a clean-faced chimney sweep will suffocate if a fire is lit in the fireplace. There was a lot of blood and viscera. The flea-ridden wool cloth of her straw bed was drenched in it, and the blood rolled around like mercury on the dirt floor. The straw in fact was burned after, hopefully not beneath a chimney sweep. There was much shouting and tearing of cloth, kicking of faces, yanking of internal things to the outside. You will be happy to know, however, that the baby survived.
This is a very long story, so I apologize for the lengthy content warning. I just want to prepare you.
There are instances of abuse in this story. The baby’s father, who was also elderly for a Jew of the shtetl, was very unhappy about the arrival of a baby and the death of his wife. He had been assured by the brisket-loving doctor that quite the opposite thing would happen. So when, only a couple of years later, his two older daughters were married off, he insisted that one of them adopt the infant. Neither of them wanted her. She was strong willed and another hungry void to fill. And their husbands made worried faces and reminded them about dowries. So they settled this in a very reasonable manner, considering. They sat the toddler in the back of the synagogue and pried the Rabbi out of his study. And, as though morality had a legal structure based in Jewish Logic, they stood up in turn and argued their case as to why each of them was the least fit to be the child’s adopted parent. They said how they were poor, and unclean, and their husbands were lazy and prone to depression and potential acts of violence. All of which was true. But so would anybody’s parents be in this circumstance. When they had finished and sat down again, the Rabbi, being a learned man, recalled to them the joke of the chimney sweeps (with some historical variations – there were no chimneys in the shtetl). He said that if everything each of the sisters had said about themselves was true, they would both be unfit to raise any children of their own and should not have been allowed to marry. They protested, saying he had missed the point completely. The infant frowned and scratched its head in the back of the synagogue. The Rabbi said fine, and declared that whichever of them got pregnant last would have to adopt the child. So that’s how the younger sister ended up with the baby.
This sister was really of the worst type. She was an influential sort of person who made it her business to inform and publicly shame anyone who didn’t follow Jewish rules – keeping the house kosher, for one, but most importantly, not marrying the goyim. (There were Orthodox Christians in the shtetl too.) Once, a jealous lover found out about his amour’s plans for elopement with a Christian boy, the son of a blacksmith. He came begging to this sister for help. The sister first visited the goy’s parents. She said, Your son is planning to elope with a Jew. They were of course outraged and threatened death. She then went to the bride’s parents. Your daughter, she said, is planning to elope with a goy. The father almost fainted and the mother kicked a cat in the ribcage. So this sister brought all of them together, the parents and the couple. To the goys she said, Thank your god, I’ve saved your son from bringing shame on his family. And to the Jews she said, You should thank me too. Now your daughter can be the footstool for some nice Jewish bookworm rather than the anvil of a Christian blacksmith. Que sera sera.
Oh, but I was trying to warn you about the abuse. The infant was being raised by this younger sister and her husband, a leather tanner. Raised is a generous term. In fact she was lowered because she was made to sleep in a basement, which, let’s be honest, was nothing you might consider a basement. It was a glorified grave. In fact she slept in a glorified casket, which was only appropriate given that she had murdered her mother. (A bit late here, but I guess there’s matricide in the story as well, something you should know about.) Glorified, in fact, is a glorified word. All I mean is, it was not technically a casket. There was nothing glorious about it.
This husband the tanner felt doubly angry at the infant, first because it was another mouth to feed, and second because it was a constant reminder of his subpar fertility, having failed to impregnate his wife before his brother-in-law had impregnated his. This resulted in all the normal sublimation of male impotency into rage directed at a child: smacking upside of the head, spanking of the tuchus, pulling of the hair, and shoving of the little girl body. On one particular occasion, and this is the one I really want to warn you about, he was so enraged with her for being the cause of his self-loathing, and for reminding him how much he indeed did loathe himself, that he grabbed her by the shoulders with his stinking stained hands and shoved her down the dirt ramp into her dirt basement where she fell face first into the dirt. She fell in such a way that, God be praised, one of her eyeballs flopped out of the socket on impact and hung from its little red ribbon like an ornament. It was lucky for her that the doctor had more specialty in eyes than in cancer, and he managed, thinking all the while of brisket, to squeeze the eyeball back into its fleshy prison. The only long-term consequence for her was a desire to, as soon as possible, get the fuck out of this hellhole and never talk about it again. Which in fact she did.
The next content warning I should issue is about neglect and then medical mistreatment. This was several years later. She had gotten out of the shtetl before the First World War broke out (a very reasonable consequence of the killing of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, considering). She hitched rides up to Gda?sk on the Black Sea. From Gda?sk, she sailed to the Big Apple where she connected with some distant cousin. This cousin and her husband lived in a boarding house in Manhattan. Or rather they lived on a flea-ridden bed in a room in a boarding house in Manhattan. The child, now twelve years old, began living with them on this flea-ridden bed in this room in a boarding house in Manhattan, which was quite a nostalgic experience for her, reminding her of her technically not-coffin flea-ridden bed back home. She began working in a place which tanned and then sewed leather goods. Soon she got a very serious pain in her gut. Her cousin and her cousin’s husband, caught up in the high-flying life of 1920s NYC (by which I mean working 16 hours a day and sleeping together on a flea-ridden mattress on the floor in a room in a boarding house in Manhattan), ignored her complaints. She yelled and screamed and cried and curled up and wailed for a few days or so. Her cousins employed that brilliant kind of blindness to suffering you can only learn from a life in the shtetl. Quit kvetching, they said, you’re in America now. Here it’s only indigestion. Finally their neighbor in the boarding house, who as it happened occupied the very same room as them, took pity on our little immigrant and carried her to the hospital, where it was discovered that her appendix had ruptured at some point during the previous days. That’s the neglect part. The medical mistreatment part is that while she was opened up, the doctors decided it would be a convenient time to sterilize their poor little immigrant girl. For her wellbeing, no doubt: like her, they knew what childbirth could do to a person. Whether this was standard practice or whether the doctors found her face unreasonable or whether her internal reproductive organs were in fact innocent casualties of the infection caused by the rupturing and then neglect of her appendix, is not known for sure. The tie going to the runner, the narrator of this story assumes it was standard practice. It is the most reasonable conjecture for a curious American Jew to make. If your hand is in the pickle jar, you might as well get a pickle. Or something.
You may be getting angry at me right about now. You may be saying how can you allow this little immigrant child, who is the narrator of the story’s great-great aunt, to completely lack personality? What a shame, you might say, that you are neglecting her humanity. We would really like to know what kind of a person this little child is. Someone with feelings, at least. Surely you would not be telling us the story of an uninteresting fool pushed around by the winds of history. Did she not beat her little fists against the chest of her brother-in-law, the abuser? Or what was she dreaming of when she landed at Ellis Island? There is always a funny or moving anecdote about the immigrant and the receiving guardsman. Or at least tell us something about her psychology. We want some insight into the psychology of a shtetl girl-turned-immigrant, so that we can know something about America, our great Nation of Freedom.
Well, in answer I will have to remind you that this is just the content warning. If you’d like to know what the story is really about, go ahead and skip to the story proper. But for those more cautious readers, there are a few more things I want to tell you about before the story begins.
As you can imagine, our little shtetl girl is really tired of these cousins of hers and their impressive numbness to appendix-related indigestion. She decides she’d better get the hell out of this hellhole that is a flea-ridden bed in a room in a boarding house in Manhattan. So, with a little identity tag pinned to her clothing, she catches a train up to the border with Canada. She has real family in Canada. A real niece from the old country who has also spent the last years purging her mind of the memory of Cossacks and basements, and who happens to be the grandmother of the narrator of this story. But of course when she makes it to the border, the agents there are suspicious of her ragged coat and the way her hair curls down beside her ear and the lingering smell of brisket and perhaps a slightly crooked eye, one can never be sure. They sniff her out. They walk around her and stick a hand up her coat. They turn her away. But she does not feel like going back to Manhattan. She gets off at the first stop on the way toward NYC, somewhere upstate. It turns out nuns in upstate New York have the need to help abandoned children in order to assuage their guilt. Or that’s what the curious American Jew is compelled to presume. Because otherwise it’s hard for that curious American Jew to imagine how she finds herself surrounded by arches and crosses and myriad depictions of the kinds of bloody suffering she, but not the nuns, is bodily familiar with. She phones Toronto and tells her real niece to get her the hell out of this hellhole. Her niece (who is actually older than her; recall our shtetl girl’s rather delayed birth) drives over and picks her up and takes her to Canada.
There may in fact be something remarkable about this immigrant girl, whose name is Minnie. Later on, she moves back to the east coast of the United States, starts a leather goods import business, marries a husband, never has kids for reasons mentioned above, lives in a socialist commune in NJ, retires to Florida, and dies with almost a million dollars, whose distribution it fell to the narrator of this story’s father to manage according to her will. So I am happy to say that the content warning ends on a somewhat positive note. Now, on to the story.
Dying for a Brisket in Roosevelt, NJ
It’s the record cool New Jersey July of 1943. Minnie Berger lives with her common law husband and no children in an already failed Jewish cooperative in Roosevelt, NJ. Her niece is visiting from Toronto. They are smoking Camel cigarettes and sitting at a little green cast iron table in a grassy spot next to a young oak tree. The oak tree does not cast very much shade yet. They are not reminiscing, as they are wont not to do. The niece, who is pregnant, mentions to her aunt Minnie that she is dying for a brisket. Oi, she says, I’m dying for a brisket. Her aunt tells her the only place to get a kosher brisket is in New York, and they can’t go there now, it’s too far and it’s too late. The niece says that that’s a real shanda, which it is. They smoke some more. Still, says the niece, I’d like to eat something.
(Meanwhile, in a forest northeast of Warsaw, a brisket-loving shtetl doctor, now an old man, is being melted and his fat harvested. Also, six million other Jews are being starved, shot, gassed, strangled, knifed, worked to death, tortured to death, bashed to death, burnt, experimented upon to death, frozen, bludgeoned, and generally murdered in whatever way is least psychologically harmful to the men doing the killing.)
So they settle this in a very reasonable manner, considering. They’ll make chicken. Que sera sera.
